https://archive.org/details/christinyou00doddrich/page/2/mode/2up


UC-NRLF 


$B  ETb  D7^ 


^q|FT or ,,  ^^ 

.ate  of  George  ^.  Bloo 
r'lsps  of  1892 


CHRIST IN YOU 


THE DEEPER ISSUES SERIES 


CHRIST  IN  YOU 

A BOOK OF DEVOTION 

SPIRITUAL RECONSTRUCTION 
By the Author of "Christ in You" 

THE  THINNING  OF THE VEIL 

A Record of Experience 

By MARY BRUCE WALLACE 

With Foreword by J. Bruce Wallace, M.A. 

PRIVATE DOWDING 
A plain record of the after-death  ex- 
periences of a soldier killed in battle 

Gof^ft/ifear Booh Conrern 
14:00 Broadway, N. Y. 


CHRIST IN YOU 


NEW YORK 

DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY 

1919 


** Unto you, O men, I call ; and my voice is to the sons of 
men." — Pbov. viii. 4. 

" Blessed are your eyes, for they see ; and your ears, for 
they hear. For verily I say unto you, that many prophets 
and righteous men have desired to see the things which ye 
see, and have not seen them ; and to hear the things which 
ye hear, and have not heard them." — Matt, xiii IG-IT. 


e3rM^43 


CONTENTS 

PART I— CHRIST IN YOU 

LESSON PAQV 

1 A Voice from the Heights 3 

2 Freedom by Understanding 6 

3 Christ the Life 10 

4 Prayer 14 

5 The Truth of Being 18 

6 God All in All, 22 

7 Get Understanding 25 

8 From Glory to Glory 29 

9 Personality 33 

10 The Book 36 

11 Sin, Separateness 41 

12 "He  that  hath  seen Me,  hath  seen  the 

Father" 46 

13 Christ in You 50 

14 Out of Darkness — Light 53 

15 Jesus Christ — The Race Man 56 

16 Truth is Steadfast — Immovable 59 

17 Imagination 63 

18 Idea — The Expressed Image 68 

19 Heaven is within You 71 

20 Growth Re.\l and Unreal 77 

21 Matter and its Relation to Spirit 80 


CONTENTS 

LESSON p^QI 

22 *'My Thoughts are towards You'' 85 

23 The Central Life is Love 90 

24 Omnipresence 92 

25 Omnipresence  (continued) 97 

26 The Control of Self and Environment .   .   . 102 

27 The Death of Mortal Man— Renunciation .   . 106 

PART II— MIND AND SOUL: THEIR 
RELATION TO THE BODY 

1 "Let your Light so Shine^' 113 

2 Born of the Virgin 116 

3 Mind and its Possibilities 120 

4 Personality    125 

5 The True Self 130 

6 The True Selfishness 134 

7 Dwell Deep 138 

8 Unfoldment from Within 141 

9 The Soul 145 

PART III— DIVINE HUMANITY 

1 I in Them 151 

2 "Thou in Mb" 154 

3 "Seek and Ye shall Find" 158 

4 "The Knowledge of God shall cover the Earth" 162 

5 The Will of God 167 

6 Workers together with God 170 

7 The Creative Energy 173 

8 God the only Life 176 

9 Hb gavb Himself 182 


PAET I 
CHEIST IN YOU 


CHRIST IN YOU 

FIRST LESSON 

A VOICE  FROM  THE  HEIGHTS 

I AM obliged to use your words and modes 
of expression, but I must say at the begin- 
ning that they ^ are wholly inadequate to 
convey spiritual truths. I long to help people 
who seem to be in the same mistaken conditions 
in which I once was, for man does not know 
himself. 

We will consider together something of the 
truth of being, the most essential and the first 
of all things. You are not the outward and 
visible form; this is the feeblest and the most 
distant likeness of your real self. I will ex- 
plain by illustration. 
When an artist paints a picture, he does not 

1 1 Oor. li. 9, 10, 14. 


4 CHRIST IN YOU 

put on canvas the reality, he gives you simply a 
copy of that n^hich is within himself. The real 
picture is on the spiritual plane and exists there 
much more truly than on the canvas; the real 
picture remains for ever, the canvas does not. 
No poet can give you his true poem. He does 
his best to convey something of its beauty, some- 
thing of its life, but even then it is far removed 
from his ideal. That, too, is on the plane of 
reality. 

There is a vast amount of creative energy 
working in and through the material jjlane. 
Like the picture and the poem, this energy is 
invisible to you. We want you to distinguish be- 
tween reality and shadow. The physical plane, 
or plane of the senses, is a shadow, a faint imi- 
tation of the spiritual and the only real. Your 
work is to show forth higher laws, to live and 
breathe entirely from the plane of spirit, to cre- 
ate anew from the very centre of all life, to make 
one the kingdom of earth and the kingdom of 
heaven. You are not to think of yourself and 
the universe now visible to you as real. It is 
this that constitutes the difference between us. 


A VOICE FEOM THE HEIGHTS     5 

We have entered into a larger consciousness of 
God, whereas you are content with the shadows 
of things. Just think how all your finest 
thought seems to vanish with the passing of 
great minds from your midst, yet this is not the 
case, as you will discover when you awake to the 
knowledge of a life that ever progresses from 
the unreal to the true. When this consciousness 
permeates the w^hole human race, you will be 
lifted to a higher plane, for growth is simply a 
larger consciousness. 

Heaven is not a place, but a consciousness of 
God. God cannot be thought of as a personal- 
ity, since God is all and in all. The Absolute is 
above and beyond the conception of finite mind, 
yet infinitely meek and lowly, filling all space. 
As you emerge into this all-pervading love, the 
true life becomes manifest and is always the an- 
swer to the deepest and highest aspirations of the 
soul. It is love fulfilling itself. Thank God for 
NOW. Learn first and thoroughly that you have 
been, and will be, for ever. Your present condi- 
tion is an opportunity for spiritual advancement. 
Make the most and the best of your life now. 


SECOND LESSON 

FREEDOM  BY  UNDERSTANDING 

IT is wonderful to realize that we are one 
great and unlimited whole. I could not un- 
derstand this once. Your ^ Scriptures tell 
you that all things are open to the eyes of God. 
How slowly we learn that God and man are one. 
Do away with your limitations. Stand out free 
in the strong life of God. You are like children 
witli your walls and partitions, your churches 
and chapels. We, too, wonder why we w^ere so 
long learning the things that have since become 
quite clear to us. God is all life, seen and un- 
seen. Millions on the material plane are in 
bondage, yet all the time the doors stand open. 
You will long to tell them this when you come to 
ns. We are permitted to come to you at some 
cost, only do believe what we say, and act upon it. 
We want to help you to live your real life. 

1 Jer. xvL 17, xxxii. 19 ; Prov. v. 21, xv. 3 ; Heb. iv. 13. 


FREEDOM BY UNDERSTANDING    7 

Begin by obedience to the dictates of the spirit 
within yourself; it \\dll lead you into truth. 
This is not easy, as man is always hedged about 
by a false personality, a Satan of the senses — 
this shadowy nothing must be cast behind us, 
for it is of the senses and would deceive human- 
ity. It is sometimes like an angel of light, so 
much does falsity imitate reality; you can al- 
ways distinguish it from the spirit, however, if 
you remember what I say. The ^ voice of Christ 
is fearless, all powerful, the voice of a conqueror; 
the voice of the shadow of good suggests limita- 
tion, sickness, death. Hold fast to the All-good, 
the only real. 

We worship God through Jesus Christ. There 
is no other way,-^ and there never has been, ex- 
cept in name. One title for God is Father, and 
it is the best we know, but it becomes much more 
comprehensive as we grow in the knowledge of 
God. You ^ have the power of a great victory 
within you, and God is continually speaking. 
In Him we live and move and have our being. 

2 .TohH xvi. 33 ; Rev. i. 18.     * Luke x. 19. 

3 Johu xiv. 6. 


8 CHKTST IN YOU 

Many who are working among the downtrod- 
den and degraded ask : " How is this? " " And 
why?" We would tell them that every created 
being must work up and through every necessary 
phase, evolving from the lowest point of created 
life. Yet we know neither the day nor the hour 
when the Son of Man cometh. Often in the deep- 
est darkness of experience, illumination arises, 
changing the w^hole aspect and environment. 
The soul at once recognizes that only through 
this period of apparent degradation and ig- 
norance can it evolve. Make the most and the 
best of every experience, you will thank God for 
them all. Do not weep with those who weep, 
but help them by a mighty love, pure as a 
mother's, for in the love of a mother is the un- 
selfishness of God. 

Learn to become unself ed. 

You are not an atom, you are the whole. 
Every true unselfish life lifts the race nearer the 
Godhead. We are finding channels everywhere, 
teaching all over the earth by secret ways. 
Above ' all things, walk by the spint of God ; as 

6 Gal. V. 16. 


FREEDOM BY UXDERSTANDING    9 

you do this more and more you will become con- 
scious of harmony in your surroundings. Keep 
your hearts full of love to God and to all men, 
and we will teach you much. If you do not un- 
derstand what we say, wait; we will teach very 
simply ; but we beg you to realize our teachings 
in your lives. 


THIKD LESSON 

CHRIST THE  LIFE 

THE voice of spirit is far-reaching. It is 
the expression of omnipresence, and is 
both near and far. It knows nothing 
of space, but for the present we must deal with 
beginnings. Perhaps it would be as well to help 
you at your present stage of unfoldment. It is 
absolutely necessary that you should have times 
of quiet/ that you should come out from the 
business of life for a part of each day. If you 
w^ere to wait in silence, holding the attitude of 
growth and steady development, thinking above 
all else of the kingdom of God — your condition 
should not be one of strain or of blank nothing- 
ness, avoid both these extremes — the result 
would be of the highest value to yourself and to 
all around you. 

Hold in your heart, the true place of under- 

1 Matt. xiv. 23 ; Mark 1. 35, vi. 31, 46. 
10 


CHRIST THE LIFE 11 

standing, a stillness which is alive, like the heart 
of the rose. The God powers within you would 
assert themselves; crooked things would become 
straight, rough places plain. All smallness and 
discord quietly but surely would drop away and 
have no longer any power. To spirit, stagnation 
is impossible. The creative energy is constant 
activity within. All outside energy is waste and 
hindrance. As you quietly ^ wait upon God, the 
breath of life renews each particle of the body 
by its silent, orderly activity. 

We are not able to tell you of future events, 
but we can indicate their trend, for each indi- 
vidual makes the future by the thoughts and acts 
of the present. You are today the result of your 
past. You may be hopeful, as your present 
thought will be fully realized in the future day. 
Hold the positive attitude in all that you under- 
take for spiritual development, knowing that 
God never fails. This holds you above the sense 
plane, and you immediately function from the 
spiritual, substantial, and only real. All must 
be finished before the Christhood of the race 

2 Job xxxiii. 4. 


12 CHRIST IN YOU 

is complete — complete, unselfish, impersonal. 
Loving God and loving man, all may ^nter into 
unity. The evolution of spirit through the ma- 
terial is the work of creation. It is God that 
worketh in you now. Rejoice that you have this 
knowledge, and give the utmost for the highest. 
Live in spirit, breathe and walk in the innermost 
heart of yourself. 

I want you to give some part of the day to this 
silent growth, thus bringing poise and balance 
into your whole being. I repeat this, as it is so 
necessary, so pregnant with results. First, you 
will be conscious of good sound judgment, a bet- 
ter understanding of your neighbour, and clear 
insight. Afterwards, the result in your body 
will be realized, for in the silence the ^ heart of 
flesh will have become one with the heart of 
spirit; and thus you bring about perfect cir- 
culation of the blood. 

You can understand how highly important this 
is when I tell you that the brain is fed by the 
spirit; a finer element has become ruler over the 
grosser, and the spirit of the living God breathes 

« Pg. xvi. 9, margin of R.V. ; Ps. Ixxiii. 2(>. 


CHRIST THE LIFE 13 

througli the outer body of flesh. I am making 
this clear in order to emphasize the necessity for 
quiet. Later, you will not need this, as you will 
command at all times and in all places, heeding 
neither environment nor discord. 

Do not seek love — give it. This is nourish- 
ment. Will you give ear to this? Take what is 
your right from your Father. He who brought 
you to this very moment of your lives is speaking 
in your hearts. Awake,^ thou that sleepest. 
Christ shall give thee light. 

4Eph. V. 14. 


FOURTH LESSON 

PRAYEE 

PRAYER is to us the breathing of the breath 
of life. It is the strongest spiritual ele- 
ment in all worlds. I think we may now 
discuss the subject of prayer — as I see you have 
used this powerful weapon to some extent ig- 
norantly. You say to some one in trouble : " I 
will pray for you," or you wish to help some one, 
say, in Australia. You know your wish is one 
with God's will, and you desire to bless with your 
whole being — but how do you send forth this 
God-energy? The prayer is often sent with the 
false idea of great separation, to a God afar off. 
It is never lost, but prayer of this kind enters 
into the vibrations most in accord with itself. 

Although something is done in this way, the 
person you wanted to help is not helped to any 
great extent. Remember, Jesus spoke to the 
maid alone, when He entered the room, saying, 

14 


PRAYER 15 

"Talitha cumi/' and you too must be definite, 
clear, positive. Enter ^ into your closet, the in- 
nermost of yourself, and there see the perfect 
will of God accomplished for your friend — this 
is simple faith — and never see or hear anything 
else. Restfully,^ and without strain, see victory 
in the name of Christ Jesus. 

Now I will tell you what takes place when you 
speak from the God-centre of your being. In the 
strength of your calm assurance, false vibrations 
are withered entirely. There ^ is neither dark- 
ness.nor depth where God is not, and you bring 
the troubled spirit into touch with God instantly. 
We have seen this many times. You cannot es- 
timate the value of true prayer. To us it seems 
as if you were like children set down in a great 
power house, not knowing the importance of the 
switches and electric forces around you, waiting 
for knowledge, yet ofttimes blind and deaf. 

I use your language so that you may xinder- 
stand, but words fail to express spiritual reali- 
ties.  Your faith in God is your life and power. 

1 Matt. vi. 6. 3 Ex. xx. 21. 

2 Mark. xi. 24. 


16 CHRIST IN YOU 

With^ true prayer you shall ask what j'ou will, 
and remember, uotliiug ^ is yours unless you take 
and possess. We have never known true prayer 
to fail. Do not cast your care upon an outside 
God and wait for results. God being within you, 
the answer is not distant from the desire. The 
spirit within is one with God and Christ; how 
then can God be afar off? I have given you this 
advice for those who have special need, but I 
would have you pray always: ^^ Thy Kingdom 
come" in every heart and life. For he who 
knows God in his own heart and in farthest space 
is at one with all nations, north, south, east, and 
west. In your love and prayer include them all. 
Live in the thought of love tow^ard all, and your 
life will become one unceasing prayer, a® con- 
stant going forth of God. 

We would help to give you poise, that yon 
may live always and only in the central life, 
dw^elling on the plane of spirit, the only reality. 
Have done with shadow and illusion — enter 

4 Matt. xxi. 22 ; John xvi. 24 
8 Josh. xvi. 4, xvm. 3 ; 1 Kings xxli. 3 ; Obad. 17. 
« Luke xvlii. 1, xxi. 36 ; Rom. xit 12 ; Eph. vL 18 ; 1 Thesa. 
T. 17. 


PRAYER 17 

into rest. Cease from time limitations. Re- 
member our first lesson — You always are, and 
you always will be. Try to realize this now. 
Rest from your anxieties and live in the eternal. 
The blessing of God is with you always and for 
ever. 


FIFTH LESSON 

THE TRUTH  OF  BEING 

THERE is nothing in life you need fear. 
You ^ will become sure that you are safe 
at all times and in every place. This 
realization will reveal to you how much you 
have understood of the truth of being. Nothing 
can affect your real individuality. We want 
these lessons to help you to enter into your own 
now.^ It is wrong to hope and expect grace 
only at some future time. 

Realize that spirit is omnipotent, omnipresent, 
omniscient. What is there to wait for? Let me 
state here — spirit cannot be less than the great- 
est. You have been trying to make statements 
from without. Let all your affirmations come 
from within, suggested only by the inward voice. 
Let ^ every other sound and sense be silent before 
it.  Let ^ this spiritual highest you take posses- 

1 Ps. xct 3 Ps. xxxvii. 7, margin of R.V. 

* 2 Cor. vi. 2. * Rom. vUi. 11, 

18 


THE TRUTH OF BEING 19 

sion of your mortal body. The only things that 
have ever really helped you to a higher knowl- 
edge of God have come from within. You must 
be true and faithful to the Word that speaks. 
Thoughts are the outbreathings of this Word, 
the first cause of all. We can only help you to 
help yourself. Eemember all through these les- 
sons that nothing helps from w^ithout unless it 
receives recognition from within. The ^ spirit 
is always revealing Christ, the whole and com- 
plete Saviour in you, the ^ hope of glory or glori- 
ousness. Your ^ entire will, thought, and brain 
are led by this holy, invisible guide into knowl- 
edge of all truth. The moments of healing and 
growth have been when all the unquiet voices of 
the senses were hushed and silenced, when all 
personalities had ceased to touch you, when you 
had learned to be still. Then^ God spoke in 
His Holy Temple. Oh that you would rest from 
your false thinking and Be ! 

Your present phase is a training ground, and 

6 Jolin XV. 26, xvi. 13-15 ; Gal. i. 12. 
« Col. i. 27 ; Gal. iv. 19. 

7 1 Thess. V. 23, 24. 
« Hab. ii. 20. 


20 CHRIST IN YOU 

jou can do there what would be out of place and 
difficult here — just as you would find it diffi- 
cult to learn the lessons of childhood when you 
are adult. Many loved ones who dwelt with you 
in the flesh have entered into the larger sphere 
to watch and pray with you. Listen to Christ 
Jesus the divine Man, and you will understand 
that His words are for you and have new mean- 
ings. That ^ you may have life in all its fulness, 
that your bodies may be perfectly whole, that you 
may be safe from harm and accident, that the 
worst enemy may be conquered, even ^" death it- 
self, before you reach the thin veil which divides 
us: all this and more will be revealed to you,% 
for all the works ^^ of God are " very good." 

Tonight when you rest, do not allow the senses 
to suggest weakness or weariness; instead, allow 
your spiritual atmosphere within and without to 
enfold and invigorate you, until you are con- 
scious of spiritual conquest before you sleep. 
Your whole body will be renewed by this holy 
baptism, and your awakening in the morning 

» John X. 10. 11 Gen. I 31. 

10 1 Cor. XV. 25, 26. 


THE TRUTH OF BEING 21 

will be a triumph and a joy. The effect of this 
is a sweet cleansing of mind and body. So ^^ 
much is done during the hours of sleep and dark- 
ness. We pray that you may truly say: 
" Awake ^^ or asleep, I am still with Thee.'' 
Cease from worry. 

12 Ps. cxxvii. 2, margin of li.V. ; Ps. xyi. 7. 
i« Ps. cxxxix. 18. 


SIXTH LESSON 

GOD  ALL IN  ALL 

ALREADY you are entering into a wider 
understanding. There are many who 
have gone on, yet in ignorance of much 
with which you are familiar. So far we have 
clearly stated the first fact — Who are we? In- 
destructible spiritual beings. The living knowl- 
edge of this alters your whole mental attitude to- 
wards sin, sickness, and death. Now we ap- 
proach with reverence and humility our next 
consideration — Why am I? 

The Avhole answer is contained in one sen- 
tence: You are, because God is; but as man is 
still blinded by false sense, I will endeavour to 
speak from your own standpoint. In the place 
where you are, there is a work of the highest 
importance to be done, and no one else can do 
your work. God has brought you to this time 
and place in order to carry out perfect laws. 

22 


GOD ALL IN ALL 23 

You may never be known to the world, but your 
work shall stand for ever. By your own indwell- 
ing spiritual forces you will spiritualize and 
make real the plane of shadow and confusion. 
Working from the same spiritual standpoint, 
there will be no separation between us and you. 
In reality, there is no division. Your world 
sense of fear is the only barrier between us. 
This is a falsity, and belongs to ignorance and 
ehaos. You are just where you are for the do- 
ing of God's perfect work. Hold an attitude of 
receptivity of heart and mind. 

All the good around you exists for ever, and 
can neve^* change or be lost. It is spoiled to 
you, because your eyes have opened to good and 
bad. The good is the only real. The ^ kingdom 
of heaven is like unto leaven, working from the 
very heart of God the Creator. Your work the 
angels might envy, for in so far as you are true 
to your unlimited and spiritual nature, you are 
creative. We earnestly watch and pray for the 
coming of the Kingdom of Heaven upon earth. 
It will be the awakening from shadow to sub- 

iMatt. xiii. 33. 


24 CHRIST IN YOU 

stance, from confusion to order, from weakness 
to power — but, above all else, to the w^holeness 
or unity of life. Eealize that your work is the 
highest, work that you have undertaken to do 
from the beginning. I would here recommend 
that you begin with your immediate circle, as the 
very next step must be the right one. See and 
know only the good in those nearest to you. 
Speak to them, recognizing the highest Self. 
Your trust shall beget in them new hope. In 
every detail of your life know only the good, 
which in very truth is the only real. Do not be 
cast down by appearances, but rather maintain 
an attitude of steadfast hope towards all who 
seem at a low stage of development, seeing al- 
w^ays the goal to which they also shall attain; 
as for yourself, work with everything that makes 
for good. Your reason for being on the earth 
now is to help on this very work. There are 
helpers all around you. God is love incarnate. 
Peace is in your hearts and lives now. Behold, 
I make all things new. 


T^ 


SEVENTH LESSON 

GET  UNDERSTANDING 

HE more we know of God, the greater 
■ becomes our reverence and humility. 
The infinite and eternal Wisdom has 
such exquisite order for every created being; the 
very stones and rocks are marvels of His good- 
ness. Even the dewdrop obeys a law and fulfils 
the eternal purpose. As you evolve,^ you discern 
these higher laws and become in harmony with 
them. It is one of our most interesting studies 
to discover the wonderful and perfect laws of 
living on each plane. If you could see the great 
interior worlds, you would almost worship your 
fellow-beings. God has endowed you richly. 
You have made mistakes, because you have not 
known yourselves. The mighty eternal love is 
seeking expression everywhere. 

You  ask :   " What  is  the  most  practical 

irroT. i. 2, 3, ii. 1-11, viii. 14, ix. 10, xvi. 22, xxvUi. 5. 
25 


26 CHEIST IN YOU 

method of healing the body? " Our great teacher 
Jesus Christ always met the need of the people 
at their exact degree of unfoldment. Thus, 
some would need the clay,^ or bathing; others 
the spoken^ word only. Jesus never failed to 
help in whatsoever condition or circumstance; 
that they came to Him was enough. This is 
where so many of your healers fail : either be- 
cause they offer something beyond their power to 
realize, or because they employ methods that 
have become as words devoid of life. The '^ great 
Healer, by reason of the greatness of His love, 
could meet every need, and only as you love can 
you really help. Love ^ perceives as never man 
sees, suggesting with infinite variety the exact 
method. We are anxious that you should not 
spoil the great and beautiful work by following 
any known method, but always by following your 
own loving spiritual instinct, taking " no 
thought what ye shall say.   It^ shall be given 

2 John ix, 7. 

3 Matt. viii. 8, ix, 20-22. 

4 Matt. viii. 16 ; Luke iv. 18, 19. 
6 John xiii. 34. 

6 Matt. X. 19. 


GET UNDERSTANDING 27 

you in that hour." Love ^ with all your heart, 
soul, mind, and strength, and nothing is impos- 
sible to you. Jesus never failed to understand 
and recognize the perfect spiritual body in all 
men. Your body is perfect in spirit (sub- 
stance), and every part of the material body 
should act in obedience to the spiritual, the 
only real. 

When the senses would indicate pain and dis- 
order, remember your spiritual body, and call 
it into manifestation by the word ® of power. 
The ^ body should manifest wholeness, or you are 
surely making God seem a failure. Later on, 
when your body functions only from the plane of 
spirit, its uses will be finer, its obedience imme- 
diate. The positive spiritual man will assert 
himself, refusing to recognize the suggestion of 
the sense man, and will become ruler. Christ 
shall reign in you, and ^^ Satan will be under 
His feet. Fill the house every day with strong, 
positive health vibrations, lifting the very at- 

7 i Cor. xiii. 

8 Luke i. 37 R.V., iv. 32 A.V. 

9 Rom. viii. 11, 19 R.V. ; Eph. i. 19, 20, 23 R.V. 

10 Rom. xvi. 20, 


28 CHRIST IN YOU 

mosphere into purity and truth. Gix)wth into 
good is so simple, so natural, for God ^^ is work- 
ing in your midst and cannot fail. 

11 Ps. Ixxiv. 12. 


EIGHTH LESSON 

FEOM  GLOEY  TO  GLORY 

WE are taking the first cause and tracing 
its relationship to our present under- 
standing. You have learned to say, 
'^ I am spirit/' " I am to create." It would be 
as well to understand at what period of creation 
the race now stands, as this will make our im- 
mediate work clear to us. The race is at present 
in its childhood, just emerging into knowledge 
of the great and only life, the I am, knowing very 
little of its true meaning and jmrpose. You 
understand that in these lessons we cannot ex- 
press spiritual verities in words, we can only 
attempt to suggest the transcendental reality be- 
hind the shadow. The finest earth-music you 
have ever heard can only suggest real music to 
you; the highest that it does is to lead you to 
the heart of the composer, where you catch some- 
thing of the perfect idea. 

29 


30 CHEIST IN YOU 

1 have used this very crude illustration to 
teach you something of the meaning of God. 
He is ever beyond our highest ideal. Here, 
then, is our call to growth. Every stage of de- 
velopment reveals more of God, and every gen- 
eration of men finds Him greater than the last. 
Today the conception is higher than it has ever 
been, and yet you see and know only ^ as men 
dimly groping in darkness and mist. God ever 
becomes more lovely as vision clears ; every height 
we climb reveals fresh glory, and ^ calls us to 
follow on with unabated eagerness. And yet His 
greatness is greatest when it is in accord with the 
lowliest atom, when the Father-Mother God lifts 
the meanest thing to a place of safety in the very 
heart of love. The realization of this fills us with 
worship and adoration, for great ^ is our God 
above all gods. 

Jesus Christ revealed God according to your 
need. The world, like children crying in the 
night, and with no language but a cry, was an- 
swered by the Father; by this name you know 

1 1 Cor. xiii. 12. 3 jfc>s. xcv. 3. 

2 2 CJor. iii. 18. 


FROM GLORY TO GLORY 31 

and love Him ; by this name we understand much 
more than you do ; but God is always willing to 
help you according to your need. Present un- 
derstanding reveals something of the law of end- 
less progression, of the fulness of life, of its 
deeper, richer meanings. Jesus* revealed the 
Christ of God, the hidden spring, abundant, 
overflowing, perpetual, never ceasing, that you 
might have it^ in all its fulness, that^ your 
flesh also might rest in hope. There is no mys- 
tery in this. Full, rich, glorious life should fill 
every vein — for Christ '^ is your life. Jesus did 
not draw down life from an outside God. He 
knew Himself to be the eternal Christ of God. 

I think you will see more meaning in the life 
of Jesus as you live from the innermost of your- 
self. Humanity, God's eternal son, will one day 
say : " It ^ is finished," and " they ^ shall all be 
one.'' God is everywhere fulfilling Himself; 
not^^ even a sparrow shall fall on the ground 
without your Father.  As Jesus the Christ was 

* Jotin i. 18. 7 Col. iii. 4. 

5 John xvii. 13, 20th Century N.T. « John xiv. 30. 

« Ps. xvi. 9. » John xvU. 21. 


32 CHRIST IN YOU 

unchanged by the experience called death, even 
so are we here, as there, ourselves, for we have 
always been and cannot die. 

10 Matt. X. 2y, 


NINTH LESSON 

./ 

PERSONALITY 

TKANSITION from the personal to the 
universal does not mean loss of identity, 
but rather a greater individuality. 
Personality as understood by man is full of limi- 
tations. If ^ the disciples were to keep Jesus of 
Nazareth, they would lose the Christ of God. 
Jesus ^ knew this and put the temptation of 
Peter far from Him, as He knew His personal- 
ity w^as not their greatest good. I ^ come to re- 
veal the Father, and I ^ will come and abide 
with you for ever: these wonderful words were 
full of meaning and today come with greater 
power. Only as ^ Jesus withdrew Himself from 
their midst, could He come again to all men in 
His omnipotence. 

I have show^n you in our previous lessons that 

1 John xvi. 5-7. 4 John xiv. 16. 

2 Matt. xvi. 21-23. 5 John xvi. 7. 
• John xiv. 7-11. 

33 


34 CHRIST IN YOU 

spirit is our first and real foundation. It has 
many channels and modes of expression, but it 
is the one and only life. Man on the plane of 
sense has tried to explain with finite mind the 
infinite wisdom of God. Man has limited the 
holy one, has dared to speak of God as person. 
Man, who does not know himself, has tried to 
explain the whole of God. In all these things 
you must live, think, and speak only from the 
spirit, for^ the spirit searcheth all things. As 
you sink deep within yourself, a great meekness 
fills all your thoughts. You learn of Him who 
was and is greatest in His meekness and highest 
in His lowliness. The true understanding of 
personality becomes clearer to you as you realize 
your relationship to the whole. Y'our vision 
clears, you become filled with holy reverence and 
mighty hope. Personality is greater than you 
know, for the weakest person has the whole uni- 
verse to draw upon — is entirely unlimited. 

I say you exist because God is, and all '^ He 
has is yours. People seem to fail for want of 
vitality.   The explanation is this: each of you 

e 1 Cot, ii. 10. 7 Luke xv. 31. 


PERSONALITY 35 

is a trinity, living on three planes — the planes 
of spirit, soul, and body. In most cases there 
has been an unequal existence on one or more of 
these planes. You should draw all from the 
spiritual first, thus feeding the ^ soul covering, 
and manifestation in the body must follow. 
Only on earth can man do this great and perfect 
work. Every spiritual truth brought into mani- 
festation is creative, and all your future is made 
by your conquests now. You must consecrate 
your whole being afresh to God, that He ^ may 
work His perfect will, bringing harmonious con- 
ditions into your life. 

« Dan. vii. 15, margin. » Pbil. ii. 13. 


TENTH LESSON 

THE  BOOK 

AT this point we will consider together 
the value of your Scriptures, the collec- 
tion of books called by you " The Bible." 

Books, words, letters, are all valueless in them- 
selves. What ^ you call inspiration is the true 
secret of their value. The spirit by its potency, 
its subtle vitality, can take any word from any 
language, on the plane of sense, and use it to 
convey meanings, to suggest thought, and often 
to pierce through a wall of sense impossible to 
the word of itself. Thus the w^ord is only the 
vehicle or outer shell, hiding either the pearl of 
great price or a two-edged sword. The ^ Word 
of God is quick and powerful; it is also sweeter* 
than the honeycomb. 

Inspiration, then, is the one spirit using for 
its channels many books and many methods; it 

1 2 Tim. iii. 16. « Fa. xix. 10, cxix. 103. 

2 Heb. iv. 12. 

36 


THE BOOK 87 

is eyer seeking aTenues to pour out the abundant 
wealth and wisdom of God. Inspiration is pos- 
sible to all men. That you can from the spiritual 
l)lane use sense, or empty words, so that they be- 
come vehicles of spiritual power, is a great and 
glorious truth. This, too, is genius, for God has 
spoken, and the ordinary language of time and 
sense is made eternal and spiritual. 

In just this way, Jesus took the word ^^ bread," 
and gave it a holy and spiritual meaning. When 
we pray : ^' Give ^ us this day our daily bread," 
we are using words of great and significant mean- 
ing— seeking the nourishment that shall sus- 
tain us in very deed. In all things we are to 
bring reality and truth where nothingness and 
limitation have made chaos and darkness. 
Then we see the necessity for light : God's first 
spoken word at the Creation — ligiit.^ 

Written words are not the only means of com- 
munication, for the si)irit comes into our outer 
man with great illumination, and to explain this 
you have no words.   I pray that this may be 

4 Matt. vi. 11; John vi. 32-51. 
i Gen. i. 3. 


38 CHKIST IN YOU 

your experience in all its fulness. It is the first 
and highest expression of God. The illumined 
soul moveL through all life, radiating light, the 
unconscious manifestation of divinity, a deep, 
inward peace, a real knowledge of men and of 
all things, a light which cannot be hid, for it is 
conveyed in every gesture, in every spoken word. 
Thus we understand an inspired or illumined 
soul. The real value, then, of the Bible is in 
the spiritual or inspired w^riter, who has opened 
your understanding to the things of God. 

Added to this is another mighty factor — the 
place you have given the Bible. It holds the 
highest place amongst all your books, and it al- 
ways wall. Millions of people have lifted it by 
their belief in it. In this we recognize the work- 
ing of a law unknown to you. I can best explain 
it as the law of transmutation. The working 
out is as follows : You can lift everything into 
the highest place, until it becomes transmuted 
and purified, changing into very gold the basest 
metal of earth. This is the philosopher's stone, 
the transmutation into heavenly values by our 
faith in absolute truth. 


THE BOOK 39 

I am putting this key into your hands, that 
you too may begin even now to turn every ex- 
perience into an opportunity to lift it into the 
highest until it becomes purified, transmuted; 
pure ^ gold tried in the fire of God; and not only 
this, but it returns to you a thousandfold, filled 
with richest meanings for all time. This is what 
has taken place with your Bible. You have 
given it this place, and your reward is that it 
will always reveal the highest things to you be- 
cause of this very law. Take the Holy Book and 
read it much ; seek ^ the spirit, not the letter, in 
this as in all other things. 

We are very much in earnest about these 
things, and if you remember that this beneficent 
law is always operating you will understand the 
effect in your lives. You have the power to bring 
any one whom you wish to help, into this place 
of blessing. Every act of your life, every ex- 
pression of your thoughts, should be lifted to- 
wards the very highest. There will come to you 
a realization of a place of sinlessness within 
yourselves, a place of purity and perfection that 

6 Rev. iii. 18. 7 John vi. 63 ; 2 Cor. iii. 6. 


40 CHRIST IN YOU 

nothing can touch or soil, for you have begun to 
Be^ even as your Father who is in Heaven. 

The Bible has become to you the Book, but I 
would also have you know that God has inspired 
men and women with power to reveal, in our own 
time, even greater things, and ever fresh unfold- 
ings from the heart of life. Above all things, 
we want you to have the open vision^ today, 
for greater things are coming, and God is doing 
wonders ^ among you. Rejoice in the new revela- 
tion, abounding in ^^ hope. The new will reveal 
the old to you afresh. Have no doubts. Launch 
out ^^ into the deeps of God, and fear not. 

Eternity is now. 

8 1 Sam. iii. 1 ; Prov. xxix. 18. lo Rom. xv. 13. 

» Josh. iii. 5. ii Luke v. 4. 


ELEVENTH LESSON 

SIN,  SEPARATENESS 

TRUTH is the eternal Word. 
There is nothing new, for truth has 
had no beginning. As you unfold 
you have clearer vision and wider spheres of 
action. You cannot see new truth, that is im- 
possible. Whenever you enter into the plane 
of spirit, prepare yourself by prayer and the 
consecration of your whole being to God. This 
is the only safeguard against false teachers. 
When there is a threefold cord it ^ is not easily 
broken. Three souls in perfect unity can do 
great things for the cause of God and of all men. 
Let the spirit within you be your only guide. 
It is for this reason only that we come, that you 
may know yourselves. Our words can only help 
as they enable you to do this. Our love for your 
world is very great.   Do not lean on any out- 

1 Eccles. Iv. 12. 

41 


42 CHEIST IN YOU 

side help, however high, however good. You 
have alieady learned that it is impossible for 
the mind of man to affect Spirit in any way. 

The work to be done in you is of far greater 
importance than learning from any teacher. 
Jesus could not do His works of healing while 
the mind was thinking. There must be silence 
when 2 God speaks. The Christ within you is 
the same yesterday,^ today, and for ever. Wait 
in silence and repose, that Christ may speak, 
may write upon yourselves His thoughts. His 
purposes. His designs. Let this mind^ be in 
you until not I, but ^ the Christ of God is your 
only reality. You have known this for many 
years, but let the old Word speak again, until 
you feel the thrill, the newness of life, the up- 
springing^ of the eternal Son of God. 

That sin may be forgiven, there is needed a 

^Gen. xviii. 1, xxiv. 63; Pa. xxxvii, 7, margin of K.V. ; 
Ezek. lii. 22 ; Gal. i. 11-17. 

a Heb. xiU. 8. 

* PMl. ii. 5. 

« Gal. li. 20. 

« John iv. 14, vii. 38. Syriac V., " He that believeth into 
Me, out of his innermost being shall flow torrents of living 
wat^r^." 


SIN, SEPAKATENESS 43 

cleansing, a putting ^ oft: the old, so that the 
tender, new realization of Christ may not be im- 
peded by the opposite of good. Sin and evil 
must not be confused as they often are. Sin is 
that great falsity connected with our outer self 
of the senses, it belongs to separateness and 
chaos. It would dare to set up its king and 
make its kingdom in our midst; but the Christ, 
now consciously real to us, as an inward fact, 
is greater than we know, and shall put all things 
under ^ Ilis feet. His very life in us is re-creat- 
ing, making ^ new, or filling with Himself, bring- 
ing the soul into unity with God ; thus, as of old, 
driving out of His Father's temple ^^ the thieves 
and robbers by His own right of possession. 
There goes out from us a cry of need, a ^^ great 
want, a reaching out to the author of our being. 
The infinite love is all-sufficient, and from that 
heart of love comes the healing of forgiveness, 
such greatness of love, that ^^ all is blotted out; 
since One dwells within who has conquered sin 
and death. 

7 Col. iii. 9. 10 John ii. 15. 

8 1 Cor. XV. 25. 11 Ps. xUi. 1, 2. 

» Rom. xii. 2. 12 Ps. U. 1 ; Col. U. 14. 


44 CHRIST IN YOU 

Learn that sin forgiven is the end of that sin, 
but ^^ not the end of its results — the root is 
killed and the river of ^* life flows on. The suf- 
fering and results caused by sin can ^^ be turned 
into good. We on this side see something of 
the compensations of life. The wavs of God are 
perfect,^^ and the soul that is conscious of the 
living Christ, lifted into unity with the Father, 
becomes one with the w^ork of redemption, lifting 
the whole race. 

Love is pressing through the very atmosphere 
round about us and you. Love requires readi- 
ness and ^"^ obedience, and we are called to do its 
bidding. Are you willing to obey even ^^ unto 
the death of the cross? That cross is the place 
of your sacrifice for all men. All must go to 
Calvary, there to become one with the Father. 
Greater love ^^ hath no man than this. Love is 
the atmosphere wherein all that is highest is 
nourished and fed. Love dwells in every human 
life, however degraded it may seem to you.  Love 

i«Gal. vi. 7. i7lsa. 1. 19. 

a* Rev. xxU. 1, 2. is Phil. ii. 7, 8. 

IS Gen. 1. 20. i» John xv. 13. 
i« 2 Sam, xxli. 31. 


SIN, SEPAEATENESS 45 

much, and ^^ Christ shall do His work through 
you, for He loves your world, and will never 
cease  until  it  has  become  the  kingdom ^^  of 
heaven. 
30 1 John It. 16-19. ai Matt vi. la 


TWELFTH LESSON 

" HE THAT HATH SEEN ME HATH 
SEEN THE FATHER " 

HEAVEN is not a place to which you 
go, it ^ is just where you are. You can 
enter heaven now. Good men and 
women from time to time have made this discov- 
ery, and henceforth " All ^ is well.'' They have 
ceased to hurry, for the journey is over. They 
are no longer pilgrims and strangers, but chil- 
dren in the Father's home. The first thing we 
understand when we awake is, that there has 
not been any journey, or passing over and 
through vast spaces. We are just where we al- 
ways have been — at home, alive for ^ evermore. 
There is no separation from any one we love, or 
from any good that is ours. To enter heaven is 
to become lifted into a larger consciousness of 

iLuke xvii. 2. 

2 2 Kings iv. 26; Hab. xvii. 17-19. 

• Rev. i. 18. 

46 


" HE THAT HATH SEEN ME "    47 

God, and in this consciousness we possess mucli 
more really all those whom we love. We are 
nearer to you, and we often talk together. 
There is no parting, but only greater unity. No 
belief in distance and space is possible on the 
spiritual plane. I can only remember it when 
I wish to understand your conditions. In the 
clearer light we can no longer hold the false idea 
of limitation. All is ours and all is yours. To ^ 
become spiritually-minded is life and peace. No 
suggestion of the carnal mind ^ can ever produce 
good. 

Thank God for the secret stir of life on your 
earth, like the sap in the tree, sending forth life 
exultant into every part. A glorious liberty^ 
is opening up before you. The captives are be- 
ing set ^ free, old bonds are bursting, fetters of 
ancient creeds are being snapped asunder. Be 
not dismayed, the battle is^ God's. Do not hug 
your chains; let go. Yield to the highest within 
you, and so become one with the great good, 
pouring forth healing and blessing through every 

4 Rom. viii. 6. 7 Luke iv. 18. 

5 Gal. V. 19-21. 8 1 Sam. xvii 47- 
• Rom. vUi. 21. 


48 CHRIST IN YOU 

waiting channel. Tlie whole race is being lilted 
on to a higher plane. This work is going on in 
your very midst. We are full of thanksgiving 
at the thought that you may know the freedom 
of the children of God. Conscious union with 
God is your whole salvation; spirit, soul, and 
body. The knowledge of God's oneness with 
man, with yourself, is the open door to freedom. 
Jesus came to show you the way, for Christ is 
the Way. 

I see you have not understood me about mind 
and thinking. This is a very wide subject. I 
can give you only the main points. The sense 
mentality, that delicate medium for spiritual 
truth, has shared in falsity — separateness — 
when it should have been the perfect channel 
for the one and only mind. Crammed by false 
thinking from the outer, it should have remained 
open to the divine inner and the only real, fed 
from the highest source, the real bread and ^ true 
blood, which is Christ. It is the power to bring 
into subjection ^^ all sense perceptions, all false 
minds, alive in every part of the body.  Every 

» John vl. 53. 10 2 Cor. x. C 


" HE THAT HATH SEEN ME '^     49 

atom of your body should be under control, lest 
the hand/^ foot, or brain should gain supremacy, 
rule you, and bring about confusion. 

The sense of separateness in every sense is 
your great enemy. We beg you to let the mind 
of ^^ the Christ control. It is wisdom. It is love, 
and It is unity. Let this mind hold you, control 
you — sweeping through the outer body of flesh 
as its lord and king; so that each breath shall 
rekindle and glow. Ay, even the very dry ^* 
bones shall reunite and breathe. So shall you 
die to sin and the sense of separateness, but live 
unto ^^ Christ. You will read and understand 
in your hearts. 

11 1 Cor. xu. 13 Ezek. xxxvii. 

12 Phil. il. 5. 1* Rom. vli. 11. 


THIRTEENTH LESSON 

CHRIST IN  YOU 

DO you ask for practical lessons on heal- 
ing because you want immediate results? 
I will answer your question, in order 
that you may attain to the highest. You can ap- 
peal on the material plane and seem to get help 
quickly; this is because you have been so long 
under the dominion of the senses. At first, 
when seeking health from the spiritual plane, 
you will seem to become worse; always regard 
this as a hopeful sign. It means the last fight 
with falsity and shadow. With each attack of 
the enemy remember that Christ is your life; 
until finally you die to live, putting off the old 
man and his dominion, to live anew and for ever, 
for you have conquered the last enemy through 
the Lord Christ. God's work is never uncer- 
tain or hurried. It is sure, and is steadily work- 
ing  out  good.   " Therefore  mine  own  arm 

50 


CHEIST IN YOU 51 

brought salvation." ^ " Therefore be steadfast,^ 
unmovable, always abounding/' and although 
you may seem to make but little headway, you 
are really growing, even in the darkness of night. 

The great master, Jesus, unfolded this asj^ect 
in His parables^ dealing with the kingdom of 
heaven. The little brown seed sown in the earth 
is unaware of the sun, until it comes through the 
darkness of matter, by its own inherent activity, 
unfolding to receive consciously that which has 
always been influencing its growth in the dark- 
ness; and yet I say that even the sun would have 
no power, were it not for the central attraction 
within the seed. Now we understand something 
of the meaning of evil and its friendly uses, that 
the dark earth is the medium for growth ; and I 
can best liken it to the creation of God, which is 
called evil, always pressing into activity the hid- 
den force within the seed covering. 

Without this friendly aid and left to itself, 
the seed, though perfect, would be non-pro- 
ductive. 

1 Isa. lix. 16. 8 Matt. xiii. 31. 

2 1 CJor. XV. 58. 


52 CHRIST IN YOU 

The so-called evil has caused the seed to 
quicken, to bring forth by its very opposition. 

Look into nature, for therein is the symbol of 
every creative process on the spiritual plane. 

All that exists is first and for ever in the 
real world of spirit, of which yours is but the 
shadow and semblance. When the fulness of 
time comes, your world will be no longer shadow, 
but substance, for it will be the kingdom of the 
Christ, the new heavens ^ and the new earth, one 
united home. There shall be no parting, for 
there shall be neither separation nor death, since 
the former things are passed away, and man and 
God are one. 

* Rev. xxl 1, 4. 


FOURTEENTH LESSON 

OUT  OF DARKNESS — LIGHT 

THE seed covering, as explained in our 
last lesson, contains the germ — the 
promise — of the fulness of the God- 
head, just as the outer man contains the seed 
form of the spiritual man, with all the possibili- 
ties of growth and expression. We would have 
you remember that while the inner and spiritual 
is always perfect, the outer covering is often 
out of harmony and has many imperfections, 
owing to long ages — as you count time — of 
ignorance and sense domination. 

You are to learn that spirit is the rightful 
ruler, the true owner and king, Man has tried 
to alter conditions on the material plane, to 
seek help from without; this has hindered and 
often prevented the real work. Wherever spir- 
itual forces have been brought to the material 
plane, the work is lasting, nay, eternal.  An un- 

58 


54 CHRIST IN YOU 

conquered body is an unfinished life. All must 
be completed He will perfect ^ that which con- 
cerneth Him. 

As vou grow in understanding of the realities, 
your vision of Christ will be clearer, and vision ^ 
is the beginning of attainment. We must first 
see, then become our vision. Hold the highest 
ideal, even Christ, and you will awake in His^ 
likeness. 

You may ask at this point, how we explain 
the perfect physique of the undeveloped races. 
The difference is that you have evolved, and al- 
though through ignorance you have not developed 
perfectly all round, yet it is a far higher thing 
to have come to a knowledge of your spiritual 
being, even at a loss to the material. The un- 
developed man will awaken later, and he too 
must learn that I am. The will to be becomes 
a force to be reckoned with. He will suffer, for 
knowledge is born of suffering, until he comes 
to the consciousness of God. As you have strug- 
gled with the less real, so will he, and you will 

IPs. cxxxvui. 8. srs. xvU. 15. 

z Hab. U. 


OUT OF DARKNESS — LIGHT     55 

watch and pray with us, till all the kingdoms 
of the earth are as the kingdom of heaven, for all 
souls ^ are the inheritance of God. So much of 
your suffering is unnecessary and caused by op- 
posing the will of God, but there is a quality of 
suffering that effects the highest good, that suf- 
fering which brings into activity the three great 
principles of spiritual growth — faith, hope, and 
love. The highest good is known by its oppo- 
site, and every experience can be used for ulti- 
mate good. Learn that the beauty of morning 
is known because of the darkness of night. Sor- 
row is ever making channels for joy. 

* Fs. U. 8 ; Dan. vii. 13, 14. 


FIFTEENTH LESSON 

JESUS  CHRIST — THE  RACE  MAN 

TIIE ^ heart is the place of understanding, 
or as we would rather say, the doorway 
of divine wisdom — '^ Blessed ^ are the 
pure in heart, for they shall see God/' The 
heart,^ and not the mind, knoweth the deep things 
of God. Our lesson can only be understood in 
your own heart. The true revelation must un- 
fold from the divine heart of love, beating in uni- 
son with your own.   So near is God. 

There are many theories, many explanations 
given about the cross of Jesus. Trust the in- 
ward and spiritual guide in all these matters, 
and not the mind of man. We know that the 
sacrifice on the cross has for your world the deep- 
est meaning. In that sublime act Jesus the 
Christ symbolized God's highest thought for you. 

1 Prov. X. 10. 

2 Matt. V. 8. 

8 Prov. U. 2, 10, iv. 23, xxii. 17. 
56 


JESUS CHKIST — THE EACE MAN   57 

You ^ cannot now comprehend the greatness of 
it. Bonds were burst, and your earth was given 
its freedom. How much we have misunderstood 
its meaning! Let us keep reverent hearts and 
hushed voices before a mystery of such high im- 
port. It has a wide meaning, and only divine 
wisdom can interpret its greatness and its love. 
From our side we see something more of its 
results. 

The principalities ^ and powers can no longer 
harm you against your own will. Jesus 
descended into the lowest® hell that He might 
set free the captives and cast off all that makes 
for separation between God and man. The cross 
was the lifting up of humanity into divinity. 
Every incident in connection therewith sym- 
bolizes some great inner truth. In that myste- 
rious outflow of water from the side, your earth 
received its chrism — its holy anointing — its 
Christhood. We worship in lowly adoration 
when we remember the greatness of that work. 
We have much to learn about this, and you can 

4 Eph. iii. 16-21. 6 i Pet. iii. 19, 

6Eph. Tl. 12. 


58 CHRIST IN YOU 

never know the full meaning of sacrifice until 
you too enter into sinless and selfless Christ- 
hood. 

Jesus Christ is your highest conception of 
God. He chose to stand for your world from the 
beginning as the eternal Christ of God. He 
alone knew all God's meaning for you. When 
visible in the flesh He was the God-man/ a Man 
for all men, loving God and loving men, the uni- 
versal Man. In Him all find relationship. He 
is of the great wholeness of life, the sap, the very 
tree and vine. He was truly Son of God and 
Son of Man. The great unity of God and Man 
is revealed in the cross. 

7 1 Ezek. ; 1 Oor. xv. 47 ; Acts xvii. 31 ; 1 Tim. ii. 5, R.V. 


SIXTEENTH LESSON 

TRUTH  IS  STEADFAST — IMMOVABLE 

TO receive this teaching you must exclude 
the vibrations of inharmonious person- 
alities; it is highly injurious to allow an 
invasion of magnetic currents. This causes ex- 
haustion and want of vitality. Keep perfect ^ 
poise of spirit, never allowing any influence to 
enter the spiritual innermost, while sensitive and 
receptive. Try to help people to their own in- 
dwelling spiritual wealth, and do not imagine 
that it is the right thing to help them of yourself. 
It is far higher to help others to help themselves, 
leading them to the true source of all good. I 
suggest that you do not allow any but yourself 
to open the door of communication between your- 
self and us. You all need to remember your own 
right ^ to rule in every condition and circum- 
stance. 

Let us consider together the meaning of the 

i Isa. XX vi. 3 ; Vs. cxii. 7. 21 Cor. iv. 8. 

59 


60 CHRIST IN YOU 

personal and of the universal, for there is much 
confusion of thought in your midst about these 
things. Jesus was both a spiritual personal 
identity and the Christ of God. This is God's 
meaning for you — with Jesus the divine teacher 
for your guide. Jesus the Christ became one 
with God when one with man. Only by with- 
drawing Himself from their midst as a person- 
ality could He really come again to His disciples 
in that interior sense which was to make of these 
ordinary men the great apostles of the Christian 
Church. Only by entering into the universal 
could He become the true individual in them and 
in us all, the You, the I am of our life and theirs. 
In that w^onderful chapter of the Acts ^ you 
may find the record of their first glimpse of the 
great cosmic consciousness, the inner illumina- 
tion which will cover the whole earth as the 
waters cover the sea. They emerged from the 
limitations of time and sense into a larger spir- 
itual freedom. Their loss of the personality of 
Jesus was their great gain of the Christ all in 
all.   You are to become one with all men, a 

« Acts. iv. 31. 


TRUTH IS STEADFAST 61 

great brotherhood and divine unity.* The words 
will surely reveal the truth. At present this con- 
sciousness is dawning ; surely we see the coming 
unity of man with man in God. 

You will in no sense be less yourself but you 
will be greater in love and understanding. The 
suffering of some is the hurt of the whole. How ^ 
beautiful are the feet of those who carry the 
tidings of peace and goodwill toward all men! 
Silently working in the heart of the nations is 
the Prince ^ of Peace. We pray for open doors 
that the great interior life may flow out and ex- 
pand, the very river from the Ancient ^ of Days. 
There® is perpetual healing wherever the river 
Cometh. 

Rest in hojje. Be strong^ and of good cour- 
age, the day is coming ^^ — the night is past. 
In ^^ the darkest and outermost hell is God. 
There are planes below yours, some even uncon- 
scious of God, but all shall be redeemed. Every 
time you make a conquest on the material plane, 

4 Ps. cxxxiU. ; John xiii. 34. s Ezek. xlvii. y, 12. 

6 Isa. lii. 7. »Deut. xxxi. 6; Josh. i. 7. 
« Isa. Ix. 6, 7. 10 Rom. xiii. 12. 

7 Daa vii. 22.  . n Ps. cxxxix. 8, Ixixvi. 13. 


62 CHRIST IN YOU 

you make better conditions for those below you. 
I repeat, every individual conquest is a victory 
for the whole race. 

Pray often and love much; do not falter on 
the upward path, for when you fall, others fall 
with you. Thank God for your glorious oppor- 
tunity here and now. 

Kead ^^ the Sermon on the Mount continually, 
and wait silently as the words unfold their mean- 
ing to you. 

12 Matt. V. vi. and vU. 


HP 


SEVENTEENTH LESSON 

IMAGINATION 

HE body is the covering and the garment 
■ of spirit, and you are learning that 
spirit is ruler. At first you may not see 
results, but the work begins the instant you func- 
tion from the spiritual plane. Do not be dis- 
couraged — as 1 was — at not seeing results. I 
see now that the work of healing was going on, 
oven when things seemed at their w^orst. You 
will thank God for the darkness and the struggle; 
you will ])rove Iheir real fnondlinoRs. ThinVt's 
work in you is to ])i*oclaim liberty to cai)tive 
souls, the opening of prison doors to them that 
are bound. Your body will be the beautiful gar- 
ment of spirit, for salvation is not in part, but 
wholly. 

You ask " What is thought? " Perhaps you 
have missed the true understanding. Thought 
is a creative process behind all phenomena.   It 

63 


64 CHRIST IN YOU 

is not a mental concept, though it finds its ave- 
nue through the mentality. The thought is 
never separated from the thinker. The worlds 
with all their myriad forms in nature are 
thoughts expressed by the Al)solute. You are 
God's thought, and so you also manifest love. 

At the very heart of life, both universal and 
individual, is the well-spring of growth, from 
which all true life evolves. It is the only One, 
the first cause of all, never outside Its own crea- 
tion, but self-€fxistent, inseparable from Itself; 
ever making for perfection and peace. This self 
of life is sending out rays of intelligence through 
its many channels, outpouring itself in infinite 
variety, but always One. The great outer 
enemy, the senses, would pervert, making separa- 
tion even of the expressed Being, until, as a 
result of ages of ignorance, man has dared to 
think of himself as a complete and separate 
identity, looking on the suffering of humanity as 
something outside himself, looking on God as 
afar off. 

God requires outflow from the great central 
life.   This is a law steadily working itself out 


IMAGINATION 65 

in the tiniest detail of your earth life. 
Your planet holds within it fire, water, and 
minerals of untold wealth, but it also holds a 
great invisible interior spiritual force, creative, 
reconstructive. This is thought, the outcome of 
the one life, breathing through stone, rock, and 
densest matter. Man limits himself by his men- 
tal process, and hinders the upspringing of the 
divine thought. (We see from our side.) Man 
gets a glimpse of a truth ; he immediately begins 
to make it concise, gives it a form, clothes it by 
the mental process called reasoning; thus him- 
self closing the avenue by separation from the 
whole. No truth is a part ; there is but one 
truth. No man can hold all the truth. This is 
a work for all time. 

You would do well to unfold the capacities for 
receiving by ^ clearing the mind of limitations,^ 
beliefs that have become bondage, and by becom- 
ing even ^ as a little child. Otherwise you can- 
not enter the kingdom. We see so much spiritual 
force imprisoned behind the closed mental doors 

1 Neh. iv. 10 ; 1 John Ui, 3. » Matt. xviU. 8. 

2 Matt. V. 21-48. 


66 CHEIST IN YOU 

of humanity. The spirit of God quickens the 
intellect, for it becomes enlightened by the true ** 
light. Open out to this hidden spiritual life, as 
the flower is nourished into full bloom by its own 
hidden forces. 

Consider well the flowers of the field; they 
do not toil ^ in order to blossom forth. You will 
become calm and steadfast, and the effect in the 
end will be a great peace ^ both in your body*^ 
and in your environment. It is God that work- 
eth ^ in you to will and to do. Man's mentality 
is not the place of thought. While the holy 
seed is unfolding, the work of creation begins in 
you, as at the l)eginning of all things. God's 
thought was your planet. When the life 
upsprings within you, it requires a place of 
action to manifest. 

That which you call imagination is the ground 
for the expression of God's thought. You will 
learn to keep the imagination pure and holy, free 
from the contamination of the senses; for that 
which is imagined, afterwards becomes. 

4 John 1. 9, vUi. 12. 7 Ps. xvi. 9, cxlvU. 14. 

8 Matt. vl. 28. 8 PMl. ii. 13. 

«Ps. cxix. 165. 


IMAGINATION 67 

Your Scriptures unfold the importance of this, 
when they describe false imaginings, and speak 
of imagining mischief.^ A pure imagination 
is sometimes called " genius." It is the mirror 
of God. Let the Christ have full control of this, 
that you may awake in His likeness. It will 
reveal God's meaning to your understanding. 
Your imagination is God's best gift. The heart 
and the imagination are closely related — they 
act and re-act. The heart and the imagination 
should be pure.^^ This involves real effort, but 
you will be richly rewarded. You will have the 
thoughts ^^ of God, your mind will reflect them, 
and enriched and illuminated by the Eternal, you 
will be conscious of ever fresh unfoldment. You 
will see, hear, and know only God. This lesson 
will unfold within you while you read. God is 
the only reality for all time. 
9 Ps. Ixil. 3. 10 Matt. v. 8. n Jer. xxix. 11. 


EIGHTEENTH LESSON 

IDEA — THE  EXPRESSED  IMAGE 

SUNDAY was a day of great joy to me. 
The seventh day has a deep meaniDg for 
your planet. There is a correspondence 
to your Sunday with us, for the seventh day is 
the Sabbath of the Lord our God. Real prayer 
is a great attraction to us; deep earnestness is 
the open door for its answer. It attracts by its 
magnetism, the fulness of its need. In our last 
lesson I told you that the place of creation in the 
individual, the spiritual ground for the projec- 
tion of thought from the divine innermost, was 
the imagination. 

Our next consideration is idea. First, the 
eternal mind; secondly, the thought; thirdly and 
lastly, the outcome of both is the idea, that which 
is to become manifest in the outermost plane of 
being. 

What are your ideas for the most part?  Are 

68 


IDEA — THE EXPKESSED IMAGE   69 

they only and entirely the outcome of divine ^ 
thought? Do you express the living Christ? I 
want to make clear to you the omnipotence of 
the divine man, and the reality of the God idea. 
Try and stand with me as you read this, and look 
out upon the earth plane. You will be filled 
with a longing desire to fulfil all ^ the law, even 
as Jesus did. The end is from the beginning — • 
God, the end of all separation. The great Love 
will leave the ninety ^ and nine to bring in the 
remaining one, for all ^ shall be in the kingdom 
of our Lord Christ. 

God's idea for your world and for you is per- 
fection and nothing less. There are many who 
have passed from your earth still clinging to the 
false idea that matter is substance, the result of 
long ages of sense belief. Good spirits, often 
deeply reverent and noble, they still live on the 
material plane; it is to them real. They like to 
see their thoughts expressed on the material 
plane.   This  is  a hindrance  to  them,  all  ig- 

1 Isa. Iv. 8, 9. 

a Matt V. 17. 

» Luke XV. 4 ; Ezek. xxiIt. 11. 

4 Luke m. 6. . 


70 CHRIST IN YOU 

norance is, as they cannot unfold to the higher 
experiences. 

Give ^ more time to quiet, that you may have 
the reflection of God ujDon the mirror^ of your 
imagination, that you too may become God's idea, 
for He has said : " Be "^ ye holy." The growth 
of this perfect idea has become manifest to us. 
As you wait ^ upon God a great underwork is go- 
ing on, and afterwards ^ it beareth fruit. 

Close the door of your closet against the sug- 
gestion of the senses, that God's Idea may mani- 
fest in your body, for " if thine eye be single ^^ 
thy whole body shall be full of light." Full, rich 
life-blood pulsates through the heart at one with 
God. This is the touch of healing, because the 
vitality of the whole universe is no longer sepa- 
rate but delights to pour itself through its own 
God -given channels. 

5 Ps. xlvi. 10. 8 Ps. Ixii. 5. 

6 2 Cor. iii. 18. 9 Mark iv. 26-20. 

7 Lev. xi. 44. lo Luke xi. 34-3G. 


NINETEENTH LESSON 

HEAVEN  IS  WITHIN  YOU 

MAY I help you in this chapter by giving 
you some little experience of my own. 
I think you know that the passing from 
the earth plane is different for almost every in- 
dividual, and is entirely what each one makes it. 
The birth into real life should be exactly like an 
awakening on a beautiful morning when the 
dawn is stealing over the land, touching every- 
thing with a purity and freshness belonging only 
to the first hours of the day. It is meant that 
w^e should open our eyes and see God everywhere ; 
just this simple, homely, all-familiar awakening 
into harmony and peace. God grant that you 
all may begin this experience where you are, then 
you will enter the more fully into reality, when 
that which is in part shall ^ be done away. 
The consciousness of God is stealing over the 

1 1 Cor. xiii. 10. 

71 


72 CHEIST IN YOU 

earth, toucliing all things into purity and truth 
by its burning, glowing love. The fire descends 
and ascends, as revealed to you in the symbolic ^ 
sacrifice of Abel. All things are revealed to you 
in your Scriptures. Man has made this book the 
medium of interpretation wherein God reveals 
wisdom. If you only knew, you could read God 
in every inspired work, but^ the Bible is your 
rich and hallowed treasure. In this ancient 
story you find the eternal truth of the two in One, 
the place of meeting — a place of sacrifice. Eead 
carefully. 

I passed into the plane of realities gently. 
My transition was entirely unexpected by my 
friends. For this I thank God, as my dear ones 
were spared the cruel anticipation and dread of 
separation. This was a great help to me, as I 
soon found I could comfort and help them to 
something of my joy. This we can all do. 
What we cannot do is to rid you of false beliefs. 
This you must do for yourselves. You can never 
lose your own, here or hereafter. More than 
that, you find that your own is greater, your cir- 

2 Heb. xi. 4. » Ps. cxix. 


HEAVEN IS WITHIN YOU 73 

cle wider, your loved ones infinitely more beau- 
tiful and even more familiar, for there is noth- 
ing strange in love. 

Rejoice I Have no fear. Fear is the cloud 
that dims the spiritual vision. The^ angels 
came to say " Fear not." Fear would keep you 
from all that is good. It is nothing more than 
an emanation from the material sense, and can 
be dispelled in an instant by the perfect ^ love. 
Man is rising out of the fear of evil, the fear of 
God, the fear of man. The truth will set you 
free^ from all that separates man from God. 

The very heathen are seeking God by the low- 
liest worship, for in their worship is aspiration. 
I discovered this when freed from the body. I 
was slow to comprehend that I had passed 
through the experience called death to find my- 
self a living and breatbing soul, never so much 
alive as then. It was too much for me. I felt 
overwhelmed by the reality and the unlimited 
sense of things slowly dawning upon me. Was 
it a delicious dream?  You see, much of my false 

*Matt. xxviii. 5. ejotin vm. 32. 

8 1 John iy. 18. 


74 CnRIST IN TOTJ 

belief clung to me. I had expected a great, a 
tremeudous change in personality. I "^ forgot 
that Jesus showed His hands and His feet; the 
same Jesus. How slow we are to believe ; ® but 
when w^e are ready to learn, we forget all error 
and ignorance and enter quickly into truth which 
is our own. 

Bless and thank God for the knowledge of the 
wholeness and unity of the race. I tell you there 
is nothing lost into w^hich God has breathed the 
breath of life. I thouglit also that I had not 
surely gone to Heaven, for I did not seem to be 
in any place. I had a new understanding, a 
fresh living consciousness of God. My eyes 
could see. The scales ^ had fallen from my inner 
vision, and love seemed the very breath of being. 
It w^as too much to enter into. Then it was as 
though I slept. Oh! how can I tell of the 
awakening? Such an awakening will be yours 
too! The best and highest I had ever imagined 
was realized, the deepest longing of my nature 
satisfied,  my purest thought answered.   Spir- 

1 Luke xxiv. 40. » Acts ix. 18. 

• Luke xxiv. 25. 


HEAVEN IS WITHIN YOU 75 

itual truths were no longer in some far distance, 
but a part of my very self. This had always 
been ; the only change that had come about was 
my unclouded consciousness of God. Now you 
see why I give you my personal experience, that 
you may know that Heaven ^^ is indeed within. 
It was as if I had just begun real life. I was 
a child with everything to learn, and from then 
till now the unfoldment has never ceased. Ever 
fresh visions, wider horizons, reaching after a 
richer satisfaction, to find that God is without 
beginning and without end. Love never rests in 
enjoyment of itself. Love must pour itself out, 
and a longing came to me to help those who were 
coming along the road I had travelled. Oh ! to 
tell them something of the indwelling ^^ Christ. 
We love you all, and long to show you what you 
possess. I want you to understand that there 
is no separation between us. We are interior 
inhabitants, but there are other inter-penetrat- 
ing states of existence. Of them I will not speak 
now. 

10 Luke xvii. 21. 

u John XT. 4, 5; Gal. U. 20; Bph. m. 17; Col. i. 21, 


76 CHRIST IN YOU 

It is a great joy to be able to reach yon with 
these thoughts. You need not wait for Heaven. 
God — Heaven — the whole of good is yours 
now. Christ is God incarnate and dwells within 
your heart, so near that the feeblest whisper is 
heard, aye, before you speak. He'^ hears and 
answers, for He is behind all thought and speech. 
He also fills all space. 

12 isa. ixv. 24. 


TWENTIETH LESSON 

GROWTH  EEAL AND  UNREAL 

THERE is an atmosphere of rest and 
peace and much deep joy. An atmos- 
phere of love is the one we can most 
easily enter. Everything is possible to the truly 
loving disciple. Love to God and man fulfils ^ 
every law. Love is ^ the key of all knowledge, 
wisdom and power. Dwell deep in this love, and 
you will see as God sees. Yet even this expres- 
sion of God is imitated by the false or shadow 
self of the senses. 

You will learn to discriminate between infla- 
tion, expansion, and real growth from the centre. 
Every good is closely imitated in the shadow 
world. Growth often means a great lack, a sense 
of poverty; it is never fulsomeness nor aggres- 
siveness. " The meek will He guide in judgment. 
The ^ meek will He teach.''  Learn the greatness 

I Rom. xiii. 10. 

I I Cor. xm. 

«Ps. XXV. 9, cxlix. 4, margin of R. V. 

77 


78 CHRIST IN YOU 

of humility.* The little child ^ is all uncon- 
gcious of its lowliness, its growth ; so also must 
the soul be when really emerging; free from the 
unreal, the outer and false self of the senses. 

" Love seeketh not her own." It should be 
nothing to you that others seem to manifest more 
of God. You and they may be at different stages 
of unfoldment. Be content to know that God is 
in the midst, and learn the secret of dwelling 
in friendly darkness, that your roots may go 
deep dow^n ; for during the time of hiddenness ® 
a great work is going on. The soul that seeks 
nourishment from the true Self becomes strong. 
Learn from the parable of "^ the house built on 
the sand, and let nothing hinder this deep work 
of the soul. Know^ that all is w^ell, though no 
result is seen. 

Seek the silence, love all men, bless all; thus 
do you make right conditions for growth. Un- 
known to you, there are outer conditions arrang- 
ing themselves in harmony with the hidden work, 

* 1 Pet. V. 5 ; Col. iU. 12 ; Matt. v. 3, 5. 

e Matt, xviii. 4. 

6 1 Cor. iv. 5. 

T Matt. vii. 26, 27. 


GROWTH REAL AND UNREAL    79 

and your whole future depends upon the true 
foundation being cleared of false building mat- 
ter, wrong thinking and wrong actions, self-ag- 
grandizement, not true material. There is no 
other foundation® than the Christ of God, the 
true self. That which is unreal must sooner or 
later be swept into nothingness. You are just 
where you are in order to do this work. Spirit 
is the only true substance, and our lessons will 
teach you how to build. God cannot fail if you 
are alive ^ to Christ within, and dead to all else. 
You may know the unreal by its self-seeking, by 
the desire for adulation, praise and self-glory. 
" Be not deceived, God ^^ is not mocked." 
8 1 Cor. m. 11. » Rom. vi. 11. lo Gal. vi. 7. 


TWENTY-FIRST LESSON 

MATTER AND  ITS  RELATION  TO  SPIRIT 

THERE is always a moment in life when 
we differentiate between the material 
and the spiritual. It happens in a va- 
riety of ways. Thomas ^ dropped the false be- 
lief immediately, when he saw the truth; ma- 
terial beliefs dropped entirely away and never 
ruled him afterwards. Pilate knew, when face 
to face with Christ, that he could never touch 
the ^ real life, although he delivered ^ Jesus over 
to the people. He had seen the eternal Christ 
w^hen alone with Him. The whole of truth is 
beyond your present comprehension. No man 
can touch truth or stay the new vision now open- 
ing up to the eyes of men. 

One of the great hindrances to understanding 
is fast slipping away — the old belief in the solid- 
ity of matter.   There is no such thing as solidity 

1 John XX. 27, 28. s John xix. 11. 

2 Luke xxm. 25. 

80 


MATTEE, RELATION TO SPIRIT   81 

in or on the planet. The instant you ceased to 
be vibratory, your body would disintegrate and 
fly off the jjlanet. Spirit is substance, and is 
not subservient to natural law. Perpetual mo- 
tion is the key to the attraction of atoms. The 
whole planetary system is a vortex of convolu- 
tions, orderly and continuous. True, man's ma- 
terial body is formed of the dust of the earth, 
though with eternal wisdom and harmonious 
wholeness. Your body holds in its material 
form an Infinitesimal atom or grain of every part 
of the globe. You cannot behold anything in 
that material world of which you are not a part. 
You are a part of the three kingdoms — mineral, 
vegetable, and animal. Thus man in the natural 
world has rule* over all. This is not so of any 
other earth-life, as each animal is distinctly and 
only an animal, but man in the process of the 
ages has come up through all, that he may pos- 
sess and have rule over all. 

Y^'ou are not matter. You cannot become ma- 
terial, and you must not be deceived by material 
appearances.  Although the value of matter in 

* Gea. i, 26. 


82 CHRIST IN YOU 

relation to your spiritual evolution is very great, 
yet I would have you know that spiritual laws 
are supreme. Your body should be perfect, for 
is it not a magnificent vehicle ^ for the spiritual 
form? While in the flesh, you learn to use spir- 
itual weapons. When you enter the interior and 
spiritual world, you will know that faith was 
made real to you. While in the flesh you should 
reach out for that which is behind the visible. 
Faith, the® strongest principle, is made your 
own by your simple trust, though you knew noth- 
ing of the reality. 

Oh! the greatness of faith, the*^ power and 
might of it ! Have faith, for only by it can you 
rise to spiritual heights, and your earth experi- 
ence is the best, nay, the only means of revealing 
you to yourself. Have faith in God, faith in 
man, faith in all good. We on this side in very 
truth have found that faith can remove moun- 
tains. It is literally true that the whole land- 
scape before your eyes can be obliterated by faith. 

6 1 Cor. iii. 16, 17, vi. 19. 

• Matt. xvii. 20 ; Mark xi. 23, 24. 

THeb. xl. 


MATTER, RELATION TO SPIRIT   83 

This is a law ; I will explain. You see now only 
in part that the things before yon, houses, 
churches, etc., are the outcome of man's limited 
thought. He has been dimly working out a spir- 
itual idea. The spiritual idea is the only fact, 
and not the bricks and mortar. There is really 
only the spiritual conception of a home, a church, 
a road, and with the eye of faith you could see 
the real only, for I assure you again that the 
spiritual is the only real. 

In many instances the real is utterly unlike 
the appearance. It is so much more beautiful, 
for man is always working out the idea of God. 
Now you have this understanding, you can sym- 
pathize with an artist who says : ^' This build- 
ing or picture is only the faintest conception 
of my idea." If he could only have the eye of 
faith he would see before him the complete spir- 
itual thought expressed, and he w^ould be over- 
come with gladness and delight. Thus at pres- 
ent you see through a glass darkly, ever reaching 
beyond the seen and the felt, that you may un- 
fold the spiritual perception through mist and 
cloud, ever cheered by the hope of realization. 


84 CHRIST IN YOU 

It is a wonderful time for you now. You are 
growing wings and preparing the spiritual body 
for its real existence. 

Now, for your body I would have you use the 
eye of faith, that you may bring into operation 
the higher spiritual law. Your thought and idea 
become an outward manifestation. You become 
your own idea, but remember, it is you your- 
selves who open to the higher laws. It is for you 
to say, " Thy will be done in me " ; it is no longer 
for the senses, but for Christ ^ in you, to will and 
to do. Creation is God manifest in the flesh. 
God is with you. 

8 PliU. ii. 13. 


TWENTY-SECOND LESSON 
"my thoughts are towards you" 

I SUPPOSE if people only knew the true 
value of thought they would be amazed to 
find that every thought is as powerful 
as a deed, and in many cases far more 
effective than any word or weapon. Yes, it is 
your innermost and highest thought that makes 
you; always remembering that thought is the 
consciousness of the absolute will. You are 
judged by what you are, and not by what you 
seem to be. The judgment bar is the innermost 
of yourself. Tt is the judgment bar of God, and 
when our actions are tested there, the voice will 
cast into ^ outer darkness that which is not of it- 
self. 

Thank God, you may enrich the kingdom of 
heaven, for many, many times the voice says, 
" Come,^ ye blessed of my Father.''  Yea, truly 

1 Matt. xxil. 13. 2 Matt. xxv. 34. 

85 


86 CHRIST IN YOU 

our thoughts do enter Heaven. You will find 
your treasure ^ where your heart is — with God. 
In very truth a man's treasure is the continual 
outpouring of God's thought, and I tell you that 
God is enriched by your co-operation. Let His 
thought be your thought, and say in the spirit of 
prayer :   " The Father and I are "^ one." 

Do I seem to repeat platitudes? Read them 
again in your moments of sacred consecration, 
until the Christ within is the only voice, till all 
that is unreal and shadowy has passed away, 
even as the melted snow. I am glad to meet you 
on the spiritual plane. You need to thank God 
for this, [n the very place where you are, if you 
could only see, you would find your own. I can 
voice your prayer — " Lord, that ^ I may receive 
my sight."' You know the answer. Jesus Christ 
left every detail to you, and to the spiritually- 
minded I say: His words are spirit.® They are 
life. I would say to all : Pray without ceas- 
ing "^ the life prayer. Live in God in the smallest 
detail.   Do not think the results you see are the 

3 Matt. vi. 21. « .Toliri vi. 03. 

4 .John X. 30. 7 Thess. v. 17. 
» Mark x. 5L 


" MY THOUGHTS '^ 87 

only results ; there is not one good word that Is 
fruitless. Believe this and have courage. The 
very desire to help, if really unselfish and pure, 
is immediate help. 

I have come along your path, and I would 
help you to know the golden, the priceless boon 
of right and holy living. Pause ! Consider well 
the command until it comes from your own heart. 
^' Be ye holy, for ^ I am holy." As you prayer- 
fully express this, you will stand renewed, recre- 
ated, alive to the possibilities of God within. 
There are moments when we breathe the same 
air. You know them. Follow the spiritual un- 
derstanding only. You now have victory over 
the less real, through the Christ of God. 

The human race is God's eternal Son. I want 
you to reach the highest bliss possible to you on 
earth, and in the flesh ; that is, to hear the voice 
from Heaven say : " This is my beloved, in ^ 
whom I am well pleased." 

Study the life of Jesus, and the veil will ^^ be 
removed more and more, until the sublime sacri- 

» Lev. xix. 2. lo 2 Cor. iii. 15, 16. 

» Luke lil. 22. 


88 CHRIST IN YOU 

flee is revealed in all its greatness, the offering 
up of all to save all, and so to make the union of 
man with God complete. Do you not see the 
greatness of surrender? What you possess is of 
no value until it is given for the whole, for we 
are One in Him and not separate from the uni- 
versal life ; it is the basis or ground of all. You 
are maimed and hurt because of sin and suffer- 
ing in your brother man, and again and again 
must the Son of Man be crucified until the great 
at-one-ment with God takes place. 

Your work is to co-operate with God, existing 
only in and drawing only from the real, the spir- 
itual, that you may be trees ^^ of healing, that 
you may out-breathe God. Even as in the nat- 
ural body you breathe to live, so also you must 
take deep breaths from the spiritual centre, that 
your whole being may be invigorated and revital- 
ized.  So much is in your own hands. 

I must remind you that regret or sadness hin- 
ders the forgiveness of God. God blots out^^ 
the sins of the past by a fresh inflow of everlast- 
ing love.  He only asks for your need of Him 

II Kev. XX. 2. 12 Ps. ciii. 3. 


'' MY THOUGHTS '' 89 

that He may fill ^^ to overflowing with Him- 
self. 

Watch and pray.^^   Again — watch. 

13 Matt. V. 6. 14 Matt. xxvi. 41. 


TWENTY-THIKD LESSON 

THE CENTRAL LIFE IS  LOVE 

I SEE you are theorizing: never do this, but 
let the truth unfold gradually and with- 
out suggestion from outside. To make 
conclusions is to close the avenue and separate 
truth from itself. Nothing outside can ever help 
you or reveal anything until it finds its answer in 
yourself. 

What is space? You are learning on the 
physical plane something of the rapidity of 
thought transference. Have you ever asked 
yourself what is between you and the mind you 
would influence? Positive thought knows noth- 
ing of distance.^ It cannot be broken or inter- 
fered with. There is nothing that can touch its 
current, for there really is no distance. The only 
necessity is the condition of receptivity. Sim- 
ple, good thought, sent out without any special 
direction, ife caught up in the stream of good and 

1 John i. 48, iv. 52. 

90 


1 THE CENTRAL LIFE IS LOVE    91 

helps all. Nothing is lost in the thought world. 
Space is a false and wrong idea, belonging to 
separation. Let your hearts and minds rest un- 
disturbed in the thought of the omnipresence of 
Godj until, even in the flesh, you may come to 
realize that there is no space or distance, for you 
dwell in ^ God and there is absolutely nothing 
outside God. 

The sense mind would cloud or hide the vision, 
but NOW you are in " the secret place of ^ the most 
High." " The tabernacle of God is with^ men." 
In all your afflictions ^ He is made to suffer. 
Even as the rivers flow out and refresh the earth, 
gaining fresh life and power as they do their 
work of purification, even so bring into the outer 
life the unseen and spiritual substance. Use 
every opportunity to live that which you ^ know, 
and let your lives flow out and bless every brother 
and sister. We long to see your divisions swept 
away by the ocean of love welling up in human 
hearts and lives. 

2 Acts xvii. 28. 5 isa. Ix. 9. 

3Ps. xci. 1. 6 Luke vi. 46. 

4 Rev. xxi. 3, 


TWENTY-POUKTH LESSON 

OMNIPRESENCE 

ALL you have ever prayed, longed, and 
hoped for exists. So mighty is good. 
You are laying up treasure ^ where there 
is no corruption, and all your good is your real 
wealth. You are making your future home, and 
your future self, by the way you live now. Re- 
joice that your names are written ^ in Heaven. 
We would fill you with more hope and joy. The 
souls that have perceived something of the il- 
lumination from the light of all men have been 
overwhelmed by the knowledge of the possibili- 
ties of their own lives. 

Let us come very near in our understanding 
of omnipresence. God, who^ fills all space, 
knows nothing of past or future, but is eternally 
present. He is Alpha and* Omega, the same 
yesterday and for ever.  The whole human race 

1 Matt. vi. 19. 8 Jer. xxili. 24. 

» Luke X. 20. * R«v. xxL 6. 

P2 


OMNIPRESENCE 93 

is meant to understand this.  Let me explain. 

You sometimes wonder at what seems loss of 
memory in us. We can recall anything of good 
that we wish. We learn the higher spiritual 
laws very quickly, and there is one that is best 
explained by the words " All time is the present.'^ 
At once we cease to hurry, a great strain drops 
from us, all is ours, and we must take our own. 
To some who are here this blessed truth is a great 
part of their Heaven. When the eager souls, 
who imagine they must do a certain amount in 
a given space of time, discover this, the effect on 
them is to renew their energies, unfold wider 
prospects, and semce becomes a rest. They 
truly begin to live. To the weary heart the pres- 
ent is enough. To live on the spiritual plane is 
to live in reality, not spasmodically and in limits. 

Pause and think — How can time be divided? 
Day and night are explained to us as the inflow 
into and the outflow from the ocean of ever-pres- 
ent time. It is a wise law — the eternal present, 
the glorious Now^ a rest and a joy, a satisfaction 
too full to make us wish to look backward or 
forward, since we know that all is well.   The 


94 CHRIST IN YOU 

sufficiency is the actual present. Think over 
this carefully, that your joy may be full. ^^ I ^ 
AM ^^ is the present tense for all time. 

This benelicent and merciful consciousness is 
the outcome of love. Just think a moment what 
the effect of entering into this realization would 
be on your earth. To draw the very next breath 
direct from God, with no past memory of wrongs 
or sins, filled only with the knowledge of the 
great love-life, assimilating all the good into the 
present, living the blessed now : think what it 
would mean. This is what Christ teaches you. 
To say, " Lazarus, come ^ forth," was to speak 
from the spiritual plane, realizing only the pres- 
ent life. 

Do you not see here the true secret of eternal 
youth, each stage of unfoldment opening up a 
richer, riper youth? I am the Lord, I"^ change 
not. Open your eyes and see this wondrous 
truth. You can be just as much of God as you 
are prepared to manifest. Even now you hold 
within yourself the accumulated good of all the 
ages.   Christ the Son of God in the heart of 

» £z. ill. 14. 8 John xL 43. ? iVlul. ill. 6. 


OMNIPRESENCE 95 

humanity reaches out to man until he awakes to 
divine consciousness. 

The seven acts of Christ become actual to man, 
instead of belonging to a past period. He ex- 
periences the birth, the awakening in the Tem- 
ple, the anointing, the temptation, the cruci- 
fixion, the resurrection, and the ascension. 
Christ ^ must be in you; nothing avails man from 
the outside, all is from within. Thank God for 
Jesus Christ, " the unspeakable gift " ^ of God. 
The evolution of one soul exalts the whole race. 
*^ That ^^ they all may be one.'^ 

The understanding of time as a present fact 
would remove false ideas of inherited ill. In 
order to bring this higher law into action on the 
sense plane, the mind would at once cease to up- 
hold the working out of ignorance and sin; yet 
at the same time it would not alter the effect 
of past cause, seeing that only the good that man 
does has any real vitality. The sense of physical 
law makes both good and evil seem of equal 
power.  Good must overcome ^^ evil by its own 

« Col. i. 27. 10 John xvii. 11. 

9 2 Cor. ix. 15. ii Dan. iv. 27 ; Rom. xil. 21. 


96 CHRIST IN YOU 

vitality.   In truth, it i» the real and the only 
real.   Realize the present.  As you read you will 
understand. 
Peace to all. 


TWENTY-FIFTH LESSON 

OMNIPRESENCE {continued) 

SO that you may the better understand ever- 
present time, I will make this statement, 
which is absolute truth : no time has passed 
since our last lesson, it was and is now. Man 
and not God made yesterday and will make to- 
morrow. This is to you the seventh month in the 
year 1907. It is the day on which Christ was 
born, and it is the only day that has ever been. 
Time cannot pass. There is no past. Man is a 
new creation by the power of the living Christ. 
You may not understand at once, but you will. 
Can you conceive of Christ ageing? Have you 
never discovered the wonderful fact in the 
thought of the eternal youth of the Christ? As 
Christ is, even so ^ are we, although it doth not 
yet appear ^ to physical or mortal sense. 

You speak of us as the unreal.   The truth is 

1 1 John iv. 17. 2 1 John ill 2. 

07 


98 CHRIST IN YOU 

quite the reverse. We are on the only real plane, 
and your physical plane or plane of the senses is 
to us the unreal or the shadow. We find many 
vital laws exactly the opposite of those in opera- 
tion on your plane. You are there to bring into 
manifestation spiritual laws, and Christ showed 
you this possibility. Water ^ was not able to en- 
gulf spirit when spirit w^as absolutely controlling 
the physical atoms. There shall no * evil or ac- 
cident befall thee, nor any sickness come nigh 
thy tabernacle (or body) . Your sicknesses, your 
disasters, are the result of your descent, or rather 
of your wrong plane of being. The Fall is a 
present and not a past fact. Man's real fall is 
that he is content with the shadow of good. He 
still eats of the tree of good and ^ evil, and until 
the Christ fills the whole consciousness, man will 
ever be at war with himself, his brother, and his 
God. 

Man's understanding is clearer, and light is 
breaking everywhere. You can read your Old 
Testament more intelligently, seeing in the sym- 

3 John vi. 19. s Gen. ili. 

*Ps. xci. 10. 


OMNIPKESENCE 99 

bols tlie inner and spiritual ideas of God. The 
waters of ^ Marah were bitter; this was the re- 
sult of the bitterness of the people. Man makes 
the quality of the land; the flow of waters in- 
creases or decreases according to laws hidden 
within yourselves. You have made the very form 
of your island, England, by your thoughts and 
inner forces. Look to it that you obey the voice 
of spirit, for man was made to have dominion.'^ 
The very changes of climate, all seeming disas- 
ters, are in accord with the life and being of man, 
and until man has come into and unto God, back 
to Eden, you will seem to wait for the new 
Heaven and the new Earth, " for in that day 
they shall neither hurt nor destroy in all My 
Holy ® Mount.'' I have lifted the veil that you 
may see the need of giving the utmost for the 
highest. Blessed be God for Jesus Christ, the 
Son of Man and Son of God. 

In the story of the bitterness of Marah is a 
hidden truth : ingratitude and murmuring 
brought bitterness.   It is the same today.   Your 

« Ex. XV. 23. 8 isa. xi. 9, Ixv. 25. 

T Gen. i. 26, 


100 CHEIST IN YOU 

thoughts, if they are the suggestions of the senses, 
will still lead to bitterness and ashes. Learn 
the secret of. praise and thanksgiving, the oil 
of ^ joy. Even in the wilderness experience the 
waters shall ^^ be sweet. You shall partake of 
the milk and ^^ honey. The ^^ manna is at your 
very feet, enough for each day, for Christ is that 
heavenly ^^ manna. Feed on Him in your heart 
by faith. 

The very gifts you seek are poured out in rich 
abundance. Lift up your eyes and see. Just 
inasmuch as you yield to the divine innermost, 
as you live and bring forth the fruit of ^^ the 
spirit, to that extent shall you have access to all 
that earth and heaven can yield. There ^^ is no 
want to the children of God. There are times 
on the physical plane when the way is hid,^® and 
the heavens seem as brass. You can open the 
floodgates by steady thanksgiving ^^ and certain 
hope.   If you only knew, the closed doors are 

filsa. Ixi. 3. 14 Gal. v. 22. 

10 Ex. XV. 25. 15 Ps. xxxiv. 10. 

11 Ex. in. 8. i« Isa. xl. 27. 

12 Ex. xvi. 18. 17 Phil. iv. 6. 

13 John vi. 51. 


OMNIPRESENCE 101 

the senses, brought up against a wall of their 
own construction, a wall of doubt, fear, and 
falsity. A breath of the spirit of God consumes 
them. You are greater than shadow, sense, or 
clay. Having your feet on the Rock, they can- 
not slide. God is with you. Complete harmony 
will be realized, for God is working out His di- 
vine purpose in you. 


TWENTY-SIXTH LESSON 

THE  CONTROL OF  SELF AND ENVIRONMENT 

TIIE world around, or rather the visible 
world, is, as you know, full of wonder- 
ful ijossibilities, though yet imperfect, 
because unconquered; illusory and shadowy only 
because man has not reached the crown of being. 
As man evolves, the whole material plane is 
lifted into a higher condition. The seasons de- 
pend on God in man, and are according to the in- 
ner mind. The world is wild and lawless in 
some regions, so much so that man is subject to 
the nature or world spirit. Misused energy and 
uncontrolled force call for lord and master, as 
the trees of old asked for a king ^ to reign over 
them. 

If you read this parable carefully, you will find 
much hidden truth. God made man to rule and 
to have all things subject to him.   The world is 

1 Judg. ix. 8. 

102 


THE CONTROL OF SELF 103 

gradually learning some of these higher mys- 
teries. If you had a tree or plant under your 
control, in time it would respond, and assume 
its highest possible form, on condition you be- 
came at one with its hidden laws, and you are 
meant to become this. I merely give you this 
simple truth to lead you higher. The physical 
world is governed by its own forces and passions, 
and not by the spiritual, the only real. For the 
teaching of this very lesson Jesus stilled the ^ 
storm with the word " Peace," since He had 
control over His own natural and physical self, 
and afterwards used the God-given right of do- 
minion.^ You are the channels through which 
the divine will and energy manifests its one self. 
To effect this you must become selfless and at 
one, for the Lord thy God is one Lord ^ and not 
many. 

There are spiritual treasures hidden in your 
earth awaiting your appropriation. These won- 
ders and glories are unrevealed to the i3hysical 
or fallen man. Cain stands as the symbol for 
the spiritually blind; he speaks the truth when 

2 Mark iv. 39. s Gen. i. 26. * Deut. vi. 4. 


104 CHRIST IN YOU 

he says : " My ^ punishment is greater than I 
can bear." Christ your Redeemer is leading 
you back to your own. You are alive to the 
truth of being — the omnipotence of God in 
man. 

You are now learning that the natural and 
sense body can have no control, but should mani- 
fest wholeness and love. There is a great and 
glorious work to be done on your plant: the 
Christ work of^ healing — and this is possible 
to all who have spiritual control. We urge you 
to do your part. God never fails, and victory 
is yours. You will know exactly how to act as 
the need arises. Take no thought '^ — only in all 
things obey the spirit, and never for a moment 
allow the senses to suggest failure, fear, or doubt. 
On all occasions speak to the senses the* word 
of power — " Get ^ thee behind me, Satan." 
God ^^ waits to pour Himself out. I say you can 
prove Him. He never fails or makes a mistake. 
Do you not see what a beautiful work awaits 

5 Gen. iv. 13. a Luke vii. 7. 

« Matt. X. 8. 9 Matt. xvl. 23. 

7 Matt X. 19. 10 Mai. iii. 10. 


THE CONTROL OP SELF 105 

you?  You ^^ receive by giving.   The more you 
bless, the greater the power of blessing. 

Love is the greatest of all healers, and finds 
its own way. 

11 Luke vL Sa 


TWENTY-SEVENTH LESSON 

THE   DEATH   OF   MORTAL   MAN — EENUXCIATION 

OH,   the  inexpressible  joy   of  vision! 
There is nothing higher or more satis- 
fying.  You shall know how to speak 
and heal in proportion as you live up to the high- 
est within you. 

Renunciation ^ implies a complete and de- 
liberate stand for truth, abandoning all else. 
It is the step which, once taken, opens up before 
you the Christ existence. It is not, as supposed, 
the giving up of ^ wealth, position, and friends, 
to become poor and desolate; it is rather with- 
drawal from submission and obedience to the 
prince of -^ this world — the creation of mortal 
sense — that you may deliberately follow the 
Christ in* every thought, renouncing all other 
rights over you.   Thus renunciation becomes ac- 

1 Matt. X. 39. s John xiv. 30. 

a Matt. xvi. 24. * 2 Cor. x. 6. 

196 


THE DEATH OF MORTAL MAN   107 

quisition.   You lay down in order to ^ take up, 
but with a great difference. 

Hitherto life has seemed a vast arena, where 
some are winners and some losers, where all who 
can fight may win, where the battle is to the 
strong. In this great game of life man gives 
all to win all, that he may become greater than 
all ; for him there is nothing beyond. This plane 
is of the senses. It is the plane of death and 
finality. The forces of the sense jjlane control 
him, and that which has happened to him is 
worse than death.   It is the loss of individual- 

ity. 

The spiritual man has failed to develop in 
that form, and must seek another. Thus the 
mortal has not become immortalized, and is 
known no more. This is true, and we tell it in 
order that you may understand the real mean- 
ing of the death of the sinner. The preservation 
of your individuality depends upon yourself — 
that you become the creation of God, a perfect 
man, a perfect woman, depends on your coming 
definitely to the place of renunciation,^ which is 

6 Jobn X. 18. 6 PhU. iil. 7, 8. 


108 CHRIST IN YOU 

for you the beginning of life. I ^ am come that 
you may have life, says Christ, and not death. 

You possess nothing of the sense world. You 
are a spiritual being, sent out from God to do 
His work and will. The material plane is your 
place of action, and your work commences with 
the dawning consciousness of God. Your Scrip- 
tures are full of this teaching; Jesus has gone 
every step of the way for your guidance. There 
are pathfinders in your midst today. Follow 
Me,® says Christ, and the spiritual and real man 
renounces all, to follow the King. 

How we love your earth! How we long to 
lift you into true life, but the great and eternal 
law stands for ever. No man can walk along 
this path, till he has made the renunciation of 
his own will ; by this choice man proves to man 
his right to divinity. To enter into truth, he 
renounces all that the world can give. You are 
on the spiritual plane to bring the kingdom of 
heaven into unity with earth, that we may all be 
one.  Thus you see how important it is to live 

T John X. 10. 

• Luke ix. 59 ; John xxi. 22. 


THE DEATH OF MORTAL MAN   169 

every moment in the only real. We hope to 
teach you much; as you enter in, you must be 
full of that confidence which is the offspring of 
truth. 

At present you are to conquer® the fleshly 
body, ruling in love, but always ruling. There is 
a beautiful work before you. Jesus said : " The 
Prince of this world cometh and hath nothing 
in Mb." These were words of life and power. 
These may be your words too, so that nothing 
can touch you, hidden in God, doing His work 
and willing His will. You may reach the place 
where you no longer hear two voices, but one 
only — that of the living Christ. 

• Rom. yiii. 11. 


PART II 

MIND AND SOUL: 
THEIR RELATION TO THE BODY 


FIRST LESSON 

" LET YOUR LIGHT SO  SHINE '^ 

WE have a glorious message for youir 
plane, and our words are winged. 
Thej come with power and influence 
to all in need. You must have singleness ^ of 
heart, and the consecrated life, to be the pure 
channel which God desires. Is it not worth while 
to voice the highest and to bear the light? Our 
message is for the world of pain and suffering, 
and for you, too ; wholeness and perfection ^ are 
God's intention. Our message will teach you 
how to attain. Every spiritual value must be 
desired,*^ must be lived. Our thought for you 
must become embodied, lived, manifested, ex- 
pressed, to all men. The two conditions we ask, 
that we may teach you, are that you become will- 
ing and obedient. Your life shall help all you 
meet, cannot fail to do so, because you cannot 

1 Matt. V. 8. « John xiii 17. 

a Matt V. 48. 

113 


114 CHRIST IN YOU 

grow without drawing others with you. This is 
Ood's perfect plan for the redemption of the 
whole. 

The seed dies^ in order to live, and becomes 
hidden, that it may manifest from within. 
Out of darkness — light. Out of weakness — 
strength. 

There is a wave of disturbance, a spiritual vol- 
cano, about to discharge itself on your earth. 
Be not dismayed; unrest and energy only prove 
that inherent life is at work. God's wheels must 
not clog. By all the wars and signs of the times, 
know ^ that the Day of the Lord is at hand, your 
own Lord and Christ, the indwelling and potent 
Christ of God. Marvel not, ye^ must be born 
of water and of the spirit. This I may explain 
to you later. The ^ keys of the Kingdom are in 
your hands. Out of chaos and confusion there 
will come peace and order to your earth. The 
wars of the nations are the birth pangs of a new 
era, and the consciousness of the race will be 
lifted by the pain and agony of the refiner's fire. 

4 1 Cor. XV. 36. 6 John Ui. 5. 

• Matt xxiv. 6. f Matt xvL 19. 


" LET YOUR LIGHT SO SHINE ''   115 

In the hearts of those who have attained the 
Christ consciousness there will be rest and glori- 
ous hope, for they shall see the new dawn arising 
when Christ who is our light shall reign. His 
kingdom cometh for ever and ever. 


SECOND LESSON 

BOllN  OF THE VIRGIN 

WE were discussing the journey of spirit 
through matter and its goal. This 
knowledge is valuable to students at 
your stage of evolution. You have learned the 
truth of Being, your high calling,^ and some of 
the first steps in the great path. When a travel- 
ler is going into strange country he is sometimes 
brought to a seeming stop by huge tracts of forest 
land, tremendous rivers, and mountainous 
heights. The spiritual life has up to the pres- 
ent been one shared withi others of like thought 
and habit as yourselves. Some of you are seek- 
ing farther on, and this means that you are called 
as Abraham was, alone ^ and in faith. Only the 
called see the burning bush ^ and hear the great 
I Am.^ One of the obstacles we want to help 
you to overcome is the mystery of the Incarna- 


1 Phil. iii. 14. 

8 Ex. iU. 2. 

2 Gen. xU. 1. 

4Bx. iii.14. 

110 

BORN OF THE VIRGIN 117 

tion, or, as we stated at the first — the journey 
of the spirit. To woman ^ and to woman alone 
came this understanding, and it will be again re- 
vealed to the feminine in this new age. Woman 
is having her true place in revelation and pro- 
phecy, and to woman shall the great mystery be 
made known. 

You have learned through previous lessons 
that there is perfect unity between God and 
man. This consciousness is slowly and surely 
dawning over the whole earth. Now, only by 
keeping this truth in mind can you comprehend 
our lesson. Even as God and man are one, so 
also there must of necessity be one only, and in 
this one is the all, manifesting through every 
channel. God is the two in one, of both natures, 
ever self -creative, and the ultimate end of our 
race is unity. All life was symbolized by the 
life of Jesus Christ in every particular. He 
came of the perfect unity of the two natures. 
Mary symbolizes this truth, and here we would 
say — lest any err by worship, or undue adora- 
tion of type or personality — that Mary was the 

6 Luke i. 38. 


118 CHRIST IN YOU 

body of flesh used for this holy manifestation, for 
the teaching of the world, and not because of her 
separate worth. Seeing that the outer self is a 
separation, it cannot be known as the complete 
Self. 

The race is rising to a knowledge of the purity 
of God, the sinlessness and love, wherein is har- 
mony, and some here and there are learning that 
the age of passion, desire, and lust is passing 
away. There is stealing over men's hearts the 
love-nature of God. It is through our love-na- 
ture that we learn the complete allness of God. 
He is making of the twain one flesh ; this is the 
marriage of the two natures. Jesus Christ was 
born directly from the two in one — as He will- 
ingly chose to take up the life on earth, from 
the beginning. In every way He stands for our 
race — man. Yes, Jesus was^ God incarnate, 
and we*^ shall be like Him. He was creative. 
His seed is in ® all, the holy child must first be 
born in you ere you can comprehend this mystery. 
Life is a spiritual essence.   Birth is a spiritual 

• 1 Tim. 111. 16. « Gal. iv. 19. 

T 1 John ill. 2. 


BORN OF THE VIRGIN 119 

fact, invisible at present to mortal eye. Jesus 
of Nazareth was God-Man, coming by the path of 
the one body of flesh. 

Let us make quite clear that God has always ® 
been manifest in the world. The coming of 
Jesus was the symbol of the supreme wholeness 
and perfection of man by the Christ of God. 
Learn by this wondrous life the love of God and 
the great unity.   I ^^ and the Father are one. 

When you have risen out of your false belief 
in separateness, and know in your heart that 
God is ALL in all, then, and then only, will you 
glide out of the false consciousness of sin, suf- 
fering, and pain, leaving it like a worn-out gar- 
ment, rising into purer life, renewed and regen- 
erated. 

Our next lesson will be "Mind, and its pos- 
sibilities." 

» Acts xiv. 17. 10 John x. 30. 


THIRD LESSON 

MIND, AND ITS  POSSIBILITIES 

EVERY condition of mind always brings 
about an outward manifestation even on 
the sense plane, and the separate self has 
power over its own environment. Thus, we will 
say, you think, you act, you become. Man is 
constantly clothing himself with ^ his thoughts, 
but these truths are familiar to you, and I want 
to lead you to the higher possibilities of the mind 
that is supreme in truth; the only mind, the 
mind of ^ Christ. The Psalmist, groping after 
this great truth, cries out : ^' Why art ^ thou so 
heavy, O my soul? For I will yet praise Him 
Who is the health of my countenance and my 
God." 

Around you are people in a condition of sick- 
ness, imperfection, and want, some of them Chris- 
tians, as regards the following of the personal 

1 Prov. xxlii. 7. 3 Ps. xliii. 5. 

2 Phil. ii. 5. 

120 


MIND, AND ITS POSSIBILITIES   121 

Jesus, but they have not made the great discovery 
of the indwelling Lord. There is no state of 
ignorance too low for the renewal of life and 
health. Those who throw off the body prema- 
turely are just as culpable as suicides, and ig- 
norance is not counted as innocence, since the 
light is in ^ all men — at some time or other the 
knowledge comes. I am speaking now only to 
readers of this book. You have no right to al- 
low sin and death to reign in ^ your mortal bodies. 

The vital question for you is — How to become 
alive to the mind of Christ and dead to the mind 
of sense? Let me here say that you have passed 
from death into life spiritually, but your work 
is less than half done if you have not conquered 
death ^ in your body of flesh. You have become 
clothed in the flesh that you may manifest God, 
and you have failed seriously if you allow any- 
thing to hide or blur the outer garment, which 
should manifest wholeness and love. 

Now we come to the beginnings. You thought 
your body must suffer and  die.   Cease your 

4 John i. 9. « 1 Cor. xv. 26. 

5 Rom. vt 12, 


122 CHRIST IN YOU 

thinking, and let Christ think. I am come that 
they might have full, rich, abundant lifeJ 
Wherever Jesus went, disease dissolved into noth- 
ingness; at His touch wholeness® sprang up. 
Your body should be willingly laid down when 
you have learned life's lessons, and when you are 
ready for the interior life. You will not escape ^ 
the ills of the flesh even when you kill your pres- 
ent body, if you have failed to obtain your earth j 
experience ; for the soul has failed to use its facul- 
ties, to acquire, to obey some divine law, and 
therefore loses an opportunity to express divin- 
ity, the true purpose of incarnation. There is 
no finer school for this experience, which we set 
out to gain, than this earth life. We must enter 
into the Christ consciousness if we would express 
the body of wholeness. 

Since the mind is the seat of pain, do you not 
see that unless you have the mind of Christ you 
cannot acquire it by freedom from the body of 
flesh only? It is more difficult to conquer on the 
plane of spirit, in fact, you will long to come 
back.  Just where you are is the place to learn ; j 

7 Jolin X. 10. 8 Matt iv. 23. 


MIND, AND ITS POSSIBILITIES   123 

therefore we who love you come to help you at 
your present stage, not only for your sake, but 
in order that the great Self, of which we are a 
part, may not be ignorantly hidden. 

Begin by opposing sense suggestion. You are 
not bom to suffer and decay, but are here for a 
purpose. There is a reason for your place in 
the great plan of life, and no one else can do your 
work. Reject the suggestion that you have dif- 
ficult circumstances, that your environment 
makes triumph impossible. These very condi- 
tions can be made steps of ascent; you can begin 
now to readjust your life. Every sense suggestion 
must be reasonably and carefully dealt with, not 
ignorantly denied, or it will crop up again and 
again. Therefore answer with patience and 
sweet reasonableness. You will find that this 
is the very opportunity for the higher Self to 
speak. Many * join with us, as you read these 
words, in prayer and strong encouragement that 
you fail not. Begin as we suggest, in the sim- 
plest way, to realize that it is God ^^ that work- 
eth in you to wiU and to do. 

• Heb. xiL 1. lo 2 Chron. xx. 17. 


124 CHRIST IN YOU 

We hope to continue the teaching of the pos- 
sibilities of mind in future lessons, and our next 
lesson will be '' Personality." I am taking this 
subject because you must carefully and daily, 
even hourly, as you count time, follow the sug- 
gestions given, always remembering Christ in 
you, the Lord of all. 


FOURTH LESSON 

PEBSONALITY 

HUMANITY shrinks, and rightly so, from 
any thought of strangeness or loss, and 
any thought that occasions shrinking or 
pain should be quietly and peacefully dropped, 
without strife ^ or resistance. I can tell you for 
a certainty that you will retain your personality 
just as long as you need it, and you will need it 
much longer yet. I am allowed to say to you 
that the meeting with your loved ones will be 
sweetly familiar, a great deal better than you 
can imagine, for they and you will be enriched 
by the love between you. Your loss is always 
gain. You can help them by your love and 
prayer, and they help you; think often of them. 
Bless them and become conscious of unity, which 
is a blessed reality. There is nothing untoward 
or strange ; you are here just what you have made 

1 Matt V. 39. 

126 


126 CHRIST IN YOU 

yourselves, and they who love you would not 
have you with them until you have finished. In 
fact, you are near them now, but the veil or cov- 
ering is over you at present. 

Love — Love — Love. This is a potent force. 
It would not meet the demands of your present 
nature to arrive suddenly at the end of being, 
since everything in God's plan is in perfect order. 
There must be gradual unfoldment and gentle 
awakening; even after the spirit ceases to need 
its personal form, it can always resume it at will. 
Paul,^ who was allowed to enter the interior 
realms, tells you that the inner man is ^ renewed 
day by day in an identity peculiarly your own, 
and exactly resembling you as you appeared, ex- 
cept that you have added the spiritual qualities, 
refining and defining all the highest and best. 
This, too, is a covering or resurrection body, and 
it is clothed in ^ white raiment to appear before 
mortal eyes. 

As your Scriptures tell you repeatedly, the 
continuity of life is ^ no more broken when the 

2 2 Cor. xii. 2. * John xx. 12. 

»2Cor. i?. 16. »2Tlm. t 10. 


PERSONALITY 127 

breath leaves the body than is the continuity of 
child life broken by the incident of birth. It is 
the means by which life is liberated, becoming 
more intense. Memory^ exists, although we 
have learned the power to dissolve into nothing- 
ness — this is true f orgetf ulness — all that is not 
of use. But I would have you know that you are 
greater than your form, that you have no limit, 
that you take limitations for purposes at present 
hidden from you, that true personality is not the 
fleshly form or a separate body, but, by reason 
of its greatness, is best manifested in part. 

Paul, who had learned this mystery, tells you 
plainly that " the body is for the Lord, and the 
Lord^ for the body,'' therefore it is quite clear 
that the body or form is only a part of the great 
whole, the mystic body of Christ. Paul also had 
revealed to him the omnipresence of man, as he 
was present in spirit with the Church of Corinth 
while his body® was visible in another place. 
Always bear in mind that to us there is neither 
time nor space. 

« Luke xvL 28. « 1 Cor. v. 3. 

T 1 Cor. vi. 18. 


128 CHRIST IN YOU 

I told you at the beginning that your Scrip- 
tures could reveal the highest, and you will find 
more and more that we only present to you in a 
new light the truth which was from the begin- 
ning, so that you may see life from higher stand- 
points, with renewed vision, new hopes, and 
moving in loftier spheres of thought and experi- 
ence. 

Now you begin to see that the Lord Christ pos- 
sesses the body of flesh, through which you choose 
to manifest ; ^ and there is no reason why it 
should not readily respond, unless you yield to 
the great enemy, the false belief in separateness. 
This enemy is symbolized in the story of the 
Garden of Eden, the separation from God. The 
lower self would become even as the gods, though 
in the words — '' Hear, O ^^ Israel, the Lord thy 
God is One Lord " — it was taught that we are 
one, that separate or outer forms never can 
finally overrule the One God. God requires per- 
fection, therefore if we would rise to this con- 
sciousness we must begin with our lower self to 
bring it into obedience and subjection to the one 

» 1 Cor. m. ie ; 1 Oor. vL 19.  ' lo i Deut vi. 4. 


PERSONALITY 129 

Ruler, and as we do this we learn what our true 
personality is. We shall not accomplish this 
great purpose without constant watchfulness ^^ 
and wholeheartedness/^ giving all to gain all, 
ready at every turn to sacrifice the lower self, 
that we may become selfless and free. 
11 Mark xm. 37. 12 Mark xii. 30. 


FIFTH LESSON 

THE TRUE SELF 
**Let him deny himself and follow Me" 

HOW often we have to remind you of the 
truth you have already learnt ! Spirit 
is the only substance ; exactly as the sap 
is the true life of the tree, so also your spiritual 
being is the cause of your natural existence. 
You can never impart a truth until it has become 
alive within yourself. We have many things to 
tell you about the life here, but at present your 
highest good is to learn the truths best applic- 
able to your present conditions. 

When I speak of the wholeness of the race and 
the mystical body, I do not want to give you 
wrong ideas about your individual responsibility. 
Each member is a complete worker. What you 
see on the plane of the senses is to us shadowy, 
vague, and often meaningless.  You are to make 

130 


THE TRUE SELF 131 

real^ to create^ to bring into exi^^tence^ spiritual 
realities by living on the only real plane of life. 
This is to ^ bring in the new heaven and the new 
earth. Your spiritual eyes will open gradually, 
not into an unfamiliar environment, but into an 
intensely real life, wherein dwelleth ^ righteous- 
ness. 

We are working all over the worid in bands to 
establish true unity and brotherhood. We shall 
succeed if you will unite with us. Is it not worth 
while? True unity is not to separate heaven 
from earth, but to bring the kingdom of heaven 
on to earth. For this we labour and pray — 
watch and wait — and we shall never cease until 
the Lord Christ has come to His own, the Christ 
of God who spake with the lips of Jesus; the 
Christ of God who dwells within, the great de- 
liverer of mankind from the bondage of sin, flesh, 
and the world of sense. For the Son of man 
must indeed be lifted up,^ and the false man of 
sense become as nought, that we all may be 
one — for Christ is God.  Clearly you see the 

1 Kev. xxi. 1. « John xU. 32. 

12 Peter Ui. 13. 


132 CHRIST IN YOU 

importance of denying self and following the 
voice and guidance of Christ! 

In the morning of your day commence by 
cleansing your heart from within (the cleansing 
of the body follows as his shadow follows a man 
in the full sunshiae) . First cast out false think- 
ing, prejudice, thoughts of sickness, fear and 
pain, by true reasoning and simple, childlike 
faith in God. As you rise, your thoughts should 
be of strength, love, a strong desire to bless. 
Now follows your prayer, a free and full conse- 
cration of all for good, that God only may be 
glorified, a prayer of steadfast assurance — Take 
no * thought what ye shall eat or what ye shall 
put on. The life is more than meat, the body 
than raiment. It is true that God will supply ^ 
your every need. In all your thoughts and deeds, 
your intercourse with personalities, remember 
that you are on the plane of spirit, seeking first 
the^ kingdom of God, the only reality. 

Oh, you are rich beyond human language! 
Leave your chamber " strong in "^ the Lord and 

♦ Matt. vi. 25. « Matt. vi. 33. 

• Phil. iv. 19. T Eph. vt 10. 


THE TRUE SELF 133 

in the power of His might." Let your whole be- 
ing join in the only true life-work — " That they ® 
all may be one." 

Amen, Amen, Amen. 

« John xvii. 11. 


SIXTH LESSON 

THE TRUE SELFISHNESS 

BE * of good courage, for all is well, 
God dwelleth in you, and this is the 
chief eternal truth. 
I know you are progressing because already 
you can command right thoughts and dismiss 
inharmonious ones. Results will follow, and 
now you will learn discrimination. It is not 
given to all to be able to judge others, but con- 
tent yourself, when tempted to judge, with pray- 
ing for them, and as you evolve, your prayers 
will be fraught with healing, because you are 
learning to pray aright. Be of good courage. 
Evil is friendly and has a beneficent purpose. 
Man becomes God-like because he rises through 
and out of evil, just as the plants emerge from 
the soil. Every good is closely imitated in the 
false dream world, and one of the imitations is 

1 Pa. xxvU. 14 


THE TRtTE SELFISHNESS 135 

called selfishness. This is a divine instinct, and 
you cannot and should not uproot it, but learn 
always that these delusions of sense have behind 
them a truth of God. Let us discover the true 
and holy selfishness. 

Man's first instinct is self-interest, self-protec- 
tion. Even in spiritual things you are con- 
stantly seeking to acquire for yourself. You re- 
quire healing of the body, a rich mind, a true 
life. This is a God-given instinct, and you are 
to get, but learn that to get is to give. The true 
law of giving is to benefit all, and thus you bring 
good to your Self; which, remember, is the great 
and only Self. 

Let us begin by a simple explanation. I use 
the language of earth that you may understand, 
for you know^ already that material things have 
no real existence, that your thought of them is 
their only reality. Do you desire health of body? 
Let us teach you how to obtain it, the true way. 
You begin at once to send out healing currents 
to some one in a lower condition than yourself, 
and immediately yon have made a pathway by 
which your own shall come to you.   Your first 


136 CHRIST IN YOU 

thought, I see, is, how can I heal when sick my- 
self? The first time you try it, you will under- 
stand that the very effort of faith required is 
the beginning of your own healing, and the larger 
love going out to others doubles your own joy 
in the long run. 

True ^ getting is always hy way of sacrifice. 
This is a simple thing to know, but it is the key 
to all true healing, of mind, body, or estate; for 
all you have truly given you will receive double, 
but you do not render to the Lord that which 
costs ^ you nothing. In the sight of God, no gift 
has been blessed to your own soul unless you 
have willingly given from your heart and blessed 
the gift by your love. You may have wealth un- 
told, though unmanifest to mortal eye. A good 
practice each day is to bless and heal every one 
in the house. Begin at once, knowing only the 
great Self, remembering the need of all in the 
house. Your own Lord will reveal each need; 
be resolute, be positive, and, above all, full of 
hope and love. If the unseen become visible at 
such times, include them, only send out, give, 
2 Acts XX. 35. « 2 Sam. xxiv. 24t, 


THE TRUE SELFISHNESS 137 

give, give. I tell you that this is your real get- 
ting, your real healing. 

The spirit reveals to you more and more. Do 
you not see that I am helping you to one of the 
richest positions; that you may become a centre 
of healing; spirit, the pure flame, burning up the 
dross; the soul, the link, holding all the physical 
powers; and the body, showing the beauty^ of 
the Lord, the true beauty^ of Holiness. 

Again I ask that you put these lessons into 
practice. 

* Ps. xc. 17. 6 1 Chron. xvi. 29. 


SEVENTH LESSON 

DWELL DEEP 

YOU are spirit, soul, and body. The 
spirit, the innermost, is clothed upon 
by the soul. The body is the vehicle 
for manifestation. Your wholeness depends 
upon the one consciousness, and the active co- 
operation of soul and body. Knowing only God 
brings into operation hidden laws, at present 
unknown to you. You develop spiritual powers 
which have hitherto lain dormant, and your whole 
being begins to live. Hearing, seeing, touch, 
and the power to communicate belong to the 
soul ; they are transmitted to a denser body for 
a divine purpose. The soul has great responsi- 
bilities, and everything depends upon her obedi- 
ence to the Lord and Master, and to her transfer 
of spiritual desire to the outer body. More than 
this, by true living you send forth spiritual vi- 

138 


DWELL DEEP 189 

brations, currents of blessing and healing, and 
all are helped by your radiant and pure environ- 
ment. 

Every spiritual desire, expressed through the 
outer body, goes on and obeys a higher law ; it is 
never lost. Never mind if you do not see results. 
I tell you the result of every noble thought ex- 
pressed has far-reaching effects, and you will 
know one day that the faintest longing desire has 
been satisfied. 

When you meditate or pray, it is the soul and 
not the body that opens to the spirit; mind- 
wandering or lack of earnestness means that the 
brain is not co-operating with the soul. See to 
it that you are definite; and think, speak, act 
from the innermost of yourself. Your soul is 
your real identity.   It is You. 

The soul thinks, breathes, acts from the spirit, 
and should make perfect the outer body. 
Wherever this is not so, the soul has failed in its 
obedience to spirit. If this disobedience takes 
place, you will find that the passing out of the 
flesh does not mean that the soul will then func- 
tion freely; for disuse of the spiritual medium 


140 CHRIST IN YOU 

means coma, arrested growth, sleep.  Awake ! * 
thou that sleepest, Christ dwells within. 

When you have ceased to need the body you 
will give back the atoms, purified and trans- 
muted by the divine life. Do not repress life, 
but express it. There is nothing either in or out 
of the flesh that can hinder the disciple who is 
at one with the will of God. 

1 Eph, V. 14. 


EIGHTH LESSON 

UNFOLDMENT FEOM  WITHIN 

THE soul has entered your present body 
that it may express God's meaning 
through this medium, also because the 
soul has need of certain experiences. The body, 
too, must be rightly valued, seeing that it exists 
for a divine purpose ; but it is only of value when 
it takes its true place in the divine order. The 
soul is the sheath ^ of the spirit, the clothing of 
man, who is for the time veiled in flesh. 

Man becomes God-like only through experience 
and discipline. This can be understood in your 
present period of life by the comparison between 
an innocent, happy child and a happy, ripe old 
age; the one is ignorantly happy and the other 
has matured and unfolded through knowledge 
and suffering. Both are happy, but the differ- 
ence is very great.  Your present earth experi- 

1 Dan* Til. 15, margin. 

141 


142 CHRIST IN YOU 

ence is the most beneficial state for your present 
healthy development. 

The mind functions from the soul. Before 
man awakes to self-knowledge the sense mind 
has ruled. All the cells in your body have their 
centre, their mind ; the grey matter of the brain 
is not the only centre for the sensation of mind. 
When ruled by the Christ mind they are flooded 
by the great intelligence in every part, each doing 
its w^ork perfectly. But the soul of man awakes 
in a body that has formed a kingdom of its own, 
and a warfare begins. This is the very period 
of your life at which I would help you : we call 
it the transitional, and it is a time when you need 
all your faith and hope, for the body is so fre- 
quently unable to respond to the new king, and 
seems for a while to fail. Have faith: believe 
me, it is true that once you have passed this 
stage, you gain what you will never lose; you 
also rise into a higher cycle, and have opportuni- 
ties for greater work. 

It is at this very point that, from being the 
healthy, uncivilized man, you become the spiritu- 
ally healthy God-Man.  You fail perhaps to be- 


UNFOLDMENT FROM WITHIN   143 

come your ideal at once, but you will surely win. 
Obey the highest within you, and never let the 
sense mind rule you. For this reason I say that 
you cannot believe in what you see ; you are con- 
scious that you are about to manifest all things 
anew. This is a slow process, since false think- 
ing has brought about false conditions. As an 
illustration, melancholy or depression causes 
acidity in the blood, and can only be cast out by 
its opposite — joy or hope. Kemedies from 
without can do good for a time only. The inner 
man ^ should be daily renewed by spirit, the one 
reality. It is not meet that the last should be 
first. Spirit rules. Love and harmony should 
prevail, not warfare and strife. Teach the body 
that its highest good is obedience to its Lord. 
Now you know enough to be able to say — Christ 
reigns in me. 

Kise in harmony — spirit, soul, and body 
reaching the eternal consciousness, which is un- 
changing, holy. You have learned that this is 
not the case with the lower self ; the sense mind 
being changeful, evanescent, susceptible to other 

a 2 Cor. Iv. 16. 


144 CHKIST IN YOU 

influences, other minds. JSow you are whole- 
ness, true health and unchanging thought. This 
is the path to unity with the two worlds; Christ 
in you, bringing life and ^ immortality to light. 
You will receive the inner illumination. You 
are learning what a glorious thing your unfold- 
ment is, warmed into growth by the interior sun. 
The soul has a real work to do in your body 
through the mind of Christ. Rejoice Ihat you 
have burst the outer covering of the seed, that 
by an immutable law you must rise. 

Sit in silence, and slowly repeat the Lord's 
Prayer. Its spiritual meaning will arise in you. 
For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the 
glory.   Amen.   Amen.   Amen. 

8 2 Tim. 1. 10. 


NINTH LESSON 

THE SOUL 

I SHOULD like to continue our discussion on 
the soul, for I rejoice to know that you 
realize the spiritual world to be here. You 
will live in it more and more, learning that spirit 
is true substance, and that you function truly 
from your luminous body, holding within your- 
self all you need. 

Wherever you see beauty, truth, or goodness, 
it is God finding expression, and you will see 
them where you least expect when dwelling on 
the spiritual plane, and much that seems to the 
natural eye good, beautiful, and true you will 
prove to be false imitations of the real. Music, 
art, poetry are expressions of God. All genius 
is God revealing Himself; by the very revelation, 
the soul refines the outer body, which should be 
as clay in the hands of the potter.^ 

All states of existence, now, and in the future, 

1 Jer. xvUi. 6. 

145 


146 CHRIST IN YOU 

are determined by the inner life and its expres- 
sion. It is not enough to know that you pos- 
sess the indwelling power to become the eternal 
Christ. Your real work, like that of Jesus, is 
to express ^ God. Your environment is the out- 
come of your mind and thought. Heaven and 
hell are states of existence you make for your- 
self here and now. Your fall away from truth 
is caused by the souPs separation from God's 
thought, and by following the false self-conscious- 
ness. Listen to your own Lord and Christ, who 
brings deliverance^ to the captive and sight to 
the blind, who redeemeth thy life from destruc- 
tion.* 

The seven creative days are experiences within 
yourself. God speaks the word of power when 
He says, "Let there be light,' and the light 
shineth from within.'^ The dividing of the* 
waters is the separation of the divine and 
the human, the firmament, symbolizing the 
Heavenly-Divine, and the seas the Earthly-Hu- 

» John xiy. 9. » Gen. 1. 8. 

» Luke Iv. la « Gen, I. 6, 7. 

* Pa. clil. 4. 


THE SOUL 147 

man. The separation of sea and land means the 
first state of receptivity, to express clearly that 
land (mind) is free and awaiting God's mani- 
festation. And God said, Let the earth '' (mind) 
bring forth, and God says within you, to your 
soul : bring forth, manifest, express My thought. 

Then you read : God gave the two lights, the ' 
greater and the lesser. These symbolize the 
lights of the two understandings — human and 
divine. The seas are ^ fruitful on the fifth day, 
thus proving the creativeness of mind and the 
birth of ideas. Then we read of larger growth, 
larger idea, till we come finally to ourselves — 
man in the image of God,^^ God's idea. You 
have not entered into the seventh period yet.^^ 
It is one of great delight and triumph. Bead 
this for yourselves with the spiritual understand- 
ing. 

Each soul makes its own Heaven, and there is 
a sense in which each created being augments 
Heaven by its own created environment.  By 

T Gen. 1. 11. 10 Gen. 1. 26. 

• Gen. 1. 16. ii Gen. ii. 2, 

• Qen. 1. 20. 


148 CHRIST IN YOU 

your rebirth into the spiritual kingdom, Heaven 
itself becomes greater. In this sense you can 
understand better what I mean when I tell you 
that all are benefited by one, because you are a 
part of all. I use the language of earth, but you 
have spiritual discernment.^^ We can never 
find true language to express Heaven and God, 
since the first is a state of consciousness, and the 
second infinity. 

I have given you these three lessons on the one 
subject, as it is good for you to live according to 
divine and spiritual law. With all thy getting, 
get ^^ wisdom. When the soul sees and knows, 
life appears orderly, and the body of flesh sensi- 
bly obedient. Be ^^ patient ; much more shall 
be revealed. The kingdom of heaven is open to 
all believers. 

Love, Peace, Joy. 

12 1 Cor. ii. 14 14 Jas. v. 7, 8. 

13 Prov. iv. 7. 


PART III 
DIVINE HUMANITY 


FIRST LESSON 

I IN THBM 

I WANT to unfold to your understanding 
something of the meaning of God imma- 
nent and God transcendent. God and man 
are not separated, and never have been.^ After 
our lesson on the mind and soul you are quite 
aware of the oneness and unity of life. You are 
in every living thing. You are round about 
everything that is. You cannot separate your- 
self from anything that lives, moves, and has its 
being. You are in the rock, the crystal in every 
bud and twig, in all places at all times. You 
have always been. The sense of separateness is 
false understanding, and brings only confusion 
of mind. 

Is not this feeling of unity more than a rela- 
tion to God? Is it not the One speaking and 
breathing through all forms — all Creation — 
the creator and the created?  How say est thou: 

1 Jolm xvU. 21. 

151 


152 CHEIST IN YOU 

" Show us the Father? '' " He that hath seen Me, 
hath seen the Father." ^ Oh, priceless truth, 
now our privilege and joy to enter into ! " I 
and ^ the Father are one." 

How are we going to live, so that this knowl- 
edge may be used for all? You dwell in the utter- 
most parts of the earth, you have your responsi- 
bility there, here, and everywhere. You are not 
without a witness, and you know nothing but 
the one good, one will, not a union of spirit with 
parent spirit, but an at-one-ment. Knowing 
only one Lord — one God — one Christ — this is 
not a mystery to you any longer. The race is un- 
folding, and you are unfolding; and just as you 
yield to truth and love, so all are helped. I can- 
not put this too strongly, for in it is the answer 
to all the seeming mystery of pain and the sor- 
rows of life. Surely * He hath borne our griefs 
and carried our sorrows, and is doing this even 
now. 

Will you reverently consider why you seem to 
be a limited part?  Is it not because you have 

« John xlv. 9. * Isa. lUl. 4. 

t Joliu X. 30. 


I IN THEM 153 

looked upon God as apart from yourself, thought 
of the indwelling Christ as Jesus of Nazareth? 
Do you not see for yourself how childlike has 
been your understanding? Your dependence 
upon some one, something, proved your childlike 
consciousness ; and even as a child learns to say : 
I am myself, so will the whole human race say, 
as we now say together: I in you and you in 
Me. I am Myself. This understanding is put- 
ting Christ on the throne, lifting Him to where 
He deals with error and sin as a thing outside 
Himself. The truth dawns, and the inner Christ 
reveals to man his birthright, his true power, 
and henceforth he becomes one with, for and 
through all. Think for a moment how you dis- 
honour Jesus as teacher if you hold Him re- 
sponsible for the forgiveness of your ignorance. 
Hath He not said : All that ^ the Father hath is 
yours, is mine? He hath also given you the key, 
the power of appropriation by faith. 

5 Luke XV. 31 ; John xvi. 15 ; 1 Cor. iii. 21 ; Matt. xxvm. 
18 ; Luke x. 19. 


SECOND LESSON 

"thou  in  MB" 

KEEP in mind the previous chapter, and 
you will be led back to it and find that 
all your life is going to teach you that 
the God-Man Christ is all in all. This truth has 
to be made one with the outermost limits of cre- 
ation, just as a leaf learns by drawing from its 
source its oneness — more than unity — with the 
tree. There is a condition of consciousness in 
everything that lives. The real you knows every- 
thing about itself, but the leaf or seeming unit 
can only learn slowly, by its life of dependence 
and unfoldment, its own place and meaning. 
Every atom contains the whole. The whole of 
God is in the blade of grass. Try to banish the 
thought of distance or space, and know that what 
you see contains within it its true life; the 
thought is within every expression. 

Your first and lowest consciousness of life was 
movement.   Your  highest  is  love.   The  seecl 

154 


" THOU IN ME '' 155 

thought is always hidden within every phase of 
life through which you merge; it moves, quick- 
ens, and brings forth seed (thought). This is 
true of all creation. Your first movement was 
in secret/ yea, in the lowest parts of the earth. 
This is symbolized in every physical birth; the 
whole of creation is manifest to the seer. The 
truths of life are simple and open. I do not 
wish to cause you vain speculation, but we desire 
to be of real practical use to you at the stage of 
unfoldment where you now are. However low 
in the scale of evolution — that is, spiritual evo- 
lution — a soul is, it can be perfect of its kind, 
and should be free from sin, sickness, and death. 
This is our glorious message for you. We would 
have you know yourselves. Get back to the 
cause. 

Why are people suffering and sinful? Be- 
cause they willingly choose to dwell in a divided 
consciousness of good and evil. Whoever for 
even a second has seen that there is ^ no evil, has 
passed from death to life. He has entered the 
Heaven of Heavens, he has seen God.   The Fall 

1 Ps. cxxxix. 15. 2 Isa. xxxiii. 15, 


156 CHEIST IN YOU 

is a thing of the present.   It is a false under- 
standing. 

Why have we tolerated this consciousness, see- 
ing that God cannot fail? The real you has 
never tolerated it. There is only one conscious- 
ness really; it is deep within yourself all the 
time ; it always has been, and now is around you ; 
and because of it and its livingness you are shak- 
ing off the shadow of ignorance — a condition of 
growth — and rising into pure being. In the 
great process you will know that sin and ig- 
norance are less than the morning mists now be- 
ing dispelled by the inner sun, the fire of the 
love-life. To become aware, while in the shadow, 
of the reality of this one true life is the solution 
of everything, for with this true understanding 
you must know that all is well for ever. That 
you are one with this movement means that you 
are emerging into fulness and freedom. See 
how it is lifting the whole race! We see its 
potent healing power everywhere ; we rejoice with 
you. You are entering into the kingdom of life 
and light. Death and sin are conquered now 
and for ever. 


f' THOU IN ME '' 157 

In our next lesson we will discuss the way of 
ascent from your present condition. 

Peace and joy and the sweet fellowship of the 
heavenly host be yours, as you consider these 
truths. 

Nothing is impossible to him that believeth. 


THIRD LESSON 

"seek and ye shall find'^ 

THE question may be asked : Why are so 
many people still in bondage even with 
this knowledge? We are in earnest, 
and are willing to be and do what we can. It is 
good for you to give your heart to the under- 
standing of wisdom. Knowledge is not under- 
standing. To know God we must be God-like. 
Because we long for perfection, we are already 
at its beginnings. Do not regard any of these 
things as distant or outside yourselves: that is 
the spirit of separateness. Let us meet the seem- 
ing difficulties together, the weights and hin- 
drances of your everyday life, for the truth will ^ 
set you free. 

Many of you seem to be in bondage to the 
climate, to lack of heat or to unevenness of tem- 
perature. Your bodies are subject to many in- 
fluences.  I too suffered in this way, and I would 

1 John viii. 32 

1Q6 


'' SEEK AND YE SHALL FIND "   159 

gladlj help you with my experience. How could 
I understand that what I needed was within? 
I thought it necessary to be warmly clad, to 
avoid chill, and to take food to sustain life. Ah ! 
if I could only show you for a minute a spiritual 
being who has passed this stage, you would know 
beyond all doubt that Christ is the^ bread of 
life, the true daily bread, nourishing both soul 
and body, able to supply your every need. 

As you awake in the morning you look outside 
and see cold; now you both see and feel cold. 
You must see before you feel a truth or a false- 
hood ; this is a law. We shall straightway begin 
to reverse the order. You will look within and 
see only God, you will feel and understand God. 
Your feeblest effort in this direction must have 
its reward. 

Bead this truth into every detail of the day, 
and live in the assurance that God cannot fail. 
See reality, God, behind every shadow. As you 
go into the outer, cast out fear. Be not anxious, 
and the very elements will be at one with you. 
This is the rule of the spiritual.  Your whole 

2 Jolm yi. 35. 


160 CHRIST IN YOU 

supply for every need is within yourself. The 
day is at hand when man, on the earth, will be a 
true spiritual being. Even now you have ex- 
pressed yourself in the present phase, and the 
God-Man is seeking a higher form of manifesta- 
tion ; but all must co-operate, and j^ou are learn- 
ing the laws of the spiritual kingdom for this 
end, that sorrow and sighing^ may flee away, 
that the sons and daughters of God may hunger 
no* more. Your responsibility is great, but 
your work is for eternity. Do not lose heart. 
Be of good courage. The work may seem slow, 
but God is in it. The result in yourself will be 
first a sense of command, and later you will smile 
at your old fears and limitations, for you will be 
at home and at rest in any climate or circum- 
stance. 

Do you not see for yourself how your thought 
has been concerned with your dependence upon 
material warmth, food, and sustenance? Later 
you will put these in their true place, und life 
will open out its treasure.^  At present your 

a Isa. XXXV. 10. 6 Deut xxviii. 12. 

* Rev. vii. 16. 


'' SEEK AND YE SHALL FIND ''   161 

whole time and thought are given to caring for 
the daily outer life. Think what the spiritual 
being with its higher faculties could enter into 
if you gave half as much time and thought to 
the true life ! 

Live simply. Take no anxious thought for the 
things of today. Let the dead bury ^ their dead. 
Follow Me.   I am within. 

6 Matt. vm. 22. 


FOURTH LESSON 

"the knowledge of god shall 
covee the earth'' 

THE day of the Lord is at hand, is here. 
Truly the Lord Christ has come in great 
glory.   The signs are in earth and sky. 
Lift up your heads.   The King of ^ glory has 
come in.   This is the wonder, the silence of this 
new birth. 

What does it mean for you? The conscious- 
ness of Christ is dawning in every lowly heart. 
The supreme man Christ is on the throne, and 
darkness is ^ under His feet. God tells this 
blessed secret to the dwellers in the innermost, 
that they may carry the tidings to the very outer- 
most. The Lord our God is One Lord, even 
Christ. There is something for you to do in this 
work, but all good, all knowledge is within one- 
self.  The real need for help is great.  We see 

1 Ps. xxiv. 2 Ps. xviii. 9. 

162 


" THE KNOWLEDGE OF GOD ''   163 

souls imprisoned in limitations, thirsting for liv- 
ing waters. My people would die for lack^ of 
understanding. Man is divine, and God is ever 
in the midst. 

Your true consciousness is the knowledge that 
One and One only fills all * space. When you 
silently think of this you will know that in this 
understanding, in this continual realization, true 
freedom lies. You will cast off everything alien 
to this; nay, you will transmute the very sins 
and ignorances into the pure gold and wealth of 
life. These must be the healing of the self by 
the Self, the forgiveness, the whole redemption 
from your Christ, your indwelling Lord. You 
are in all and through all, in every place, since 
hidden within yourself is the centre of all worlds. 

As you write these words we are near you, and 
many would like to come back and tell you the 
glorious news, to open your eyes that you may 
see in very truth — " There am ^ I in the midst.'' 
So far you have understood clearly the one Self 
of all, when you have looked within, but now we 

8 Hos. iv. 6. 8 Matt, xviii. 20. 

* Jer. xxUi. 24. 


164 CHRIST IN YOU 

will try to look out upon seemingly separate per- 
sonalities and still see the One only. To recog- 
nize the one Lord in all is to lift them into the 
consciousness of the Christ, and this is just what 
the spiritually taught are doing. You must each 
do your part where you are. 

Help souls to cast out fear. Fear is one of 
your foes. In one way or another you allow this 
false condition to cloud your vision and drag 
down your spirits. Get rid of ^ fear for your- 
self and for others. There is absolutely nothing 
to fear.   The indwelling Christ is Lord supreme. 

Remind yourself constantly of your true na- 
ture. Declare that the light dispels darkness, 
and see this law in action. I no longer,"^ but 
Christ the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. See 
what this little enemy fear has done, a very fox, 
spoiling ^ the vine. In your immediate environ- 
ment, the body, fear affects its circulation, diges- 
tion, and gastric juices. I only use these words 
so that we may swiftly ascend to a higher plane. 
Fear not.  There is none other ® God but Me. 

e 1 John iv. 18. 8 Song ii. 15. 

T QaL ii. 20. » Isa. xly. 


" THE KNOWLEDGE OF GOD "   165 

Once rid the race of fear; and love, joy, peace, 
would spring up. Now this must positively be 
done in each one of you. In fact, the universe 
has been conquered when you have won. Your 
own Christ has conquered sin and death. 

Face life and circumstances with the certainty 
of the I Am with you and in you. Only thus 
will you honour God. Try from this moment to 
forget the small you, false and shadowy, and cast 
it off for ever. Here I would say that only love 
is Lord. You can fill the whole mentality with 
love thoughts, so making a rich soil for the 
growth of good. You have nothing to fear. 
You are in God and God is in you. 

Cleanse ^^ your hearts, and not your garments. 
From within must the true forgiveness arise, and 
not from without. Be clean' eveiy whit, whole 
and perfect. Be positive; know that you must 
make your circumstances, and not wait for events 
and then act. You are blind and miserable till 
your inner eyes, " the eyes of ^^ the understand- 
ing, are opened.^'   " It is high time to awake 

10 Joel ii. 13. 

n Eph. i. 18 ; Job xxxli. 8 ; Prov. xx. 27. 


166 CHEIST IN YOU 

out of ^^ sleep." Use these God-given powers for 
the good of every one. There is nothing outside 
God. God and man are one. Confidence and 
trust are ^^ the antidotes for anxiety and fear. 

12 Rom. xiii. 11. 

13 isa. xxxii. 17, xxx. 15. 


FIFTH LESSON 

THE  WILL  OF GOD 

WHAT a long time it takes us to under- 
stand the will of God! 
You often use the phrase, "I have 
made up my mind." This has a great deal of 
meaning, if you pause to consider it, for in that 
very process you begin to bring into manifesta- 
tion the desire of the mind. Thus you say : " I 
see a wrong condition in my mind, my mentality, 
my circumstances ; I will make up my mind, this 
shall not be." You mentally set in motion the 
forces of the universe, seen and unseen, to ac- 
complish your will. 

You see, it is impossible to live carelessly or 
lightly on the spiritual plane, and these lessons 
would be of no use to any one who has not been 
aroused to true spiritual consciousness, the con- 
sciousness of the divine humanity, the I Am. 
How can the will of God be expressed except 
through life, through humanity, in the hearts and 

167 


168 CHRIST IN YOU 

minds of beings who exist in Himself? There- 
fore know that the will of God is operative in 
yourself. 

Then how is it that the things we will and de- 
sire do not come to us, you may ask. 

Because deep down in all your desires, 
thoughts, and purposes there is an undercurrent, 
as it were, the thought within the thought, the 
desire within the desire, and what you most truly 
desire is always at the root of all your fleeting 
impressions and moods of the moment. Have 
you not often felt that the very thing you desire 
is not for your eternal good? Well, that very 
glimmer, that faint suggestion, is from the self of 
you that is making your life. You know within 
yourself the very quality, the very experiences 
best suited for your highest good. Once j^ou 
give full play to this subtle suggestion behind ^ 
.all your thinking, you are one with the will of 
God, which is your own will. This is the voice 
of the spirit, heed its w^hisperings. Do not sin 
against the Holy Ghost, or you will lose eye and 
ear and become blind and deaf.   On the plane 

1 isa. XXX. 21. 


THE WILL OF GOD 169 

of the senses this is most disastrous, because you 
are just where you are to do the will of God. It 
is your meat and ^ drink. So delicate and so 
subtle is this holy inner voice that you must be 
very quiet and meek, if you would hear ^ it. Let 
Jesus speak to you again and again, read the 
Gospels until you are led more and more to re- 
move the veil which hides you from your true 
self. I have only answered your question, but 
hope to speak to you again on this subject. 

Peace, Heavenly Grace.   God lives in you, He 
is your life. 

2 John iv. 34. « Ps. xxv. 9. 


nr 


SIXTH LESSON 

WORKEES TOGETHER  WITH  GOD 

HEBE really is no such thing as space. 
- For you, as for us, the spiritual law of 
attraction operates, but your conscious- 
ness of limitation, of distance, makes you blind 
and deaf to a great extent. At a later period of 
your unfoldment, to desire is to possess. Thus, 
if we w ish to see you, our thought is a vital force, 
we are in your actual presence immediately, we 
are so close to you. Thought is so potent, so 
swift ; every thought of ours becomes an outward 
expression ; although you may not see it, you can- 
not think without a result. Be very careful that 
you think from the spiritual plane. The phe- 
nomena of time and sense are like children's toys 
to us. They will be discarded as you dwell in 
the higher consciousness. What divides us now 
is simply and only that you are not dwelling in, 
not breathing, seeing, hearing from the spiritual 

plane.   Every effort to rise helps another; but 

170 


WORKERS TOGETHER WITH GOD   171 

see to it that you are watchful, vigilant, purpose- 
ful, and loving. 

You partake of the inflow and outflow of the 
breath of God. This is best described as waves, 
impelled by an irresistible law, and your whole 
planet is continually being swept over by this 
mighty healing breath. I am explaining this for 
purposes of healing, and hope to explain later 
that there are periods of outflow and recall. 
We wish you to breathe forth your healing cur- 
rents in unison with the almighty good. Your 
co-operation is necessary for individual needs. 

Noon and sunrise are good times for raising 
conditions of false consciousness into the great 
One, especially the conditions known to you as 
feverish and nervous, or the consciousness of 
weakness. Other cases I hope to explain as 
I see you coming into contact; but previous to 
the expression of your desire for the healing of 
the body and a change of circumstances, hreathe 
out a strong positive assurance of man's unity 
tcith God, Your highest good is to banish the 
idea of separation from God. 

Bands of us are striving to influence men and 


172 CHRIST IN YOU 

women to free your land of asylums, reforma- 
tories, prisons, and similar places. Their in- 
mates could be helped and healed so much more 
oasily if they could be brought in contact with 
those who have learned the great truths we come 
to teach. We do not give these lessons for any 
other reason than to help your world, which we 
love. We hope to be of i)ractical use in freeing 
your world from suffering, which is caused by 
ignorance. By this we do not mean that you 
escape discipline, but how can you begin to learn 
your real purpose for being if you are in bond- 
age to false conditions? God did not purpose 
that your life should be spent in overcoming 
false conditions. He has a magnificent purpose, 
a part for you to take in His work. 

God bless you and keep you alive unto Him- 
self and dead to sin.  Amen. 


SEVENTH LESSON 

THE CREATIVE BNERGY 

IT is the silent, creative great One, dwelling 
in the abyss of each, in whom we live and 
have our being. I am being taken within 
the centre of life. Again I am in the centre of 
power, but this time I remember that I have al- 
ways been. The process of creation is always 
present, it is not a past series of events. There 
is no sense of past or future, but of a continu- 
ous present. I have already described the great, 
silent energy and the lack of colour and sound 
when in the centre, but this time the desire of 
life is upon me, the sense of lack. I desire 
beauty and colour. I am the positive one, and 
the virility and strength of the atmosphere 
around me lacks its opposite. 

With the desire I will, and soon the will, which 
is the producer, directs my forces. There is a 
new power about me. I am surrounded by a 
great arc of light, and I become conscious of a 

173 


174 CHEIST IN YOU 

heart within myself. I love, I will! The arc, 
which was of a varying shade of gold, slowly be- 
comes roseate and glowing; the electrons of light 
are no longer colourless, but softened and shaded 
by pink. Love expresses the beautiful in colour. 
I am answered in myself. I am both positive 
and negative, male and female; and out of this 
consciousness, beauty of form and shade seem 
born ; yet as I write this I know that i)erf ection 
has always been, though I bring it into evidence 
by my will and desire. Colours surround me, 
and millions of shades seem to evolve from three 
— red, blue, and yellow. They harmonize and 
blend, and the place seems full of sound and 
form. I have desired, I have willed. The col- 
ours emit the sound, and soon I see the forms of 
flowers. These colours cannot be seen on the 
physical plane, though they are full of light and 
breath. As you see, this is extremely difficult 
to describe, as also for you to imagine, but the 
colours breathe and live, and are inter-related to 
sound and form. There seems no division be- 
tween the moving shades and the appearance of 
elegant and delightful shapes.   Truly I am in a 


THE CREATIVE ENERGY 175 

place of beauty, which is bom out of the two in 
one. There is a sense of completeness, a har- 
mony of many parts. The great energy is soft- 
ened by beauty, and love is the breath of this life. 

The teacher speaks. You could not bear this 
for long, and the meaning will unfold to you. 
One single drop of dew contains what you have 
seen with the eye of the soul. The Creator is in 
the atom. Yes, truly, the whole of God is in the 
blade of grass. By this know that space is a 
meaningless word on the true plane of being. 

Everything is in the universal soul ; the Christ 
mind alone comprehends. The one Self is cre- 
ative, having both natures. 

In heaven there is neither marrying nor giving 
in marriage. This is the highest consciousness 
of Christ. 


EIGHTH LESSON 

GOD THE ONLY LIFE 

I WANT to tell you how real, how true it is, 
that nothing exists outside God, and I can 
best help you by the description of an ex- 
perience of my own.   Life both here and there 
is a constant unfoldment, always fresh, a con- 
tinual revelation. 

I have already told you of my entrance into 
the spiritual world, and now may I speak of one 
of my steps into a greater fulness of God, into 
life more abundant? I had learnt many things, 
the spiritual faculties were quickened, and I was 
always learning that our especial need is to have 
greater capacities for God, to do as Paul says 
continually — " Yield ^ yourselves unto God.'' 
It was most wonderful to discover that my 
thought instantly produced an outer environ- 
ment; in fact, my thought came into being at 
once.  For instance, I desire quiet for medita- 

1 Rom. vi. 13. 

17^ 


GOD THE ONLY LIFE 177 

tion — I am instantly in a grove and all is still- 
ness, inviting repose. I think music — and at 
once I hear snblimest strains, ravishing and 
melodious. I am satisfied — the music gently 
ceases. Truly, eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, 
all that awaits us when we are in God. I desire 
to help, and I am sent to people who are climbing 
up ; and oh I the joy of helping them to their own. 
This is my longing desire for you. Be ye holy ^ 
(healthy), for I am holy (healthy), says God. 
Happiness and health and all good is God. 
There is no secret initiation, no mystery in God. 
You only need the heart of the child to^ enter 
the kingdom. It is true in a beautiful sense 
that there is nothing hidden which shall not be 
revealed. All things are open and are yours. 
You are not always able to understand because 
you are not sufficiently evolved; but never forget 
that all is yours, for ye are God's. 

Even this exquisite joy around me, even the 
knowledge that my thought made me, did not 
seem enough, and I longed intensely^ for God 

2 Lev. xix. 2. * Ps. xlii. 1. 

»Mark x. 15. 


178 CHEIST IN YOU 

above all else, until I realized that nothing but 
the Infinite could satisfy me. This thought, this 
desire, was not answered in the usual way, but 
one of the shining ones who go in and out among 
us stood beside me and said, " Are you ready for 
the cleansing waters? Your prayer is heard." 
At the same time the spirit within repeated the 
familiar words : " Ye shall ^ surely find Me." 
" Yes, yes," I said, " all for God," and I fell on 
my knees in an attitude of prayer. Then began 
the cleansing by the waters from the Kiver of 
God. From within there arose a cleansing 
stream, that made me aware of its workings in 
my heart. My limitations must go. I, who 
thought I possessed relatives, friends, home, 
must learn that God must enlarge my heart with 
greater loves, more friendships. 

There are no limitations where God is, no 
claiming of personalities. God is all. The 
waters were bitter, but you must do this for the 
great gain. Your ideas and thoughts are not 
God's thoughts, nor are your ways God's ways.® 
Ah, it is true, and it will be your eternal good to 

B Jer. xxix. la • Isa. 1?. 8. 


GOD THE ONLY LIFE 179 

know this now. Everything that seemed pecul- 
iarly my own was simply swept away until I was 
as nothing, and longing only for God. The 
Angel spake again with great love and tender- 
ness — ^' Thou shalt know thyself by this test : 
art thou content to be nothing, and know noth- 
ing? " With great faltering I answered " Yes.'' 
The reply came, " Know God, and thou shalt 
Be.'' I think there was a long time of quiet. I 
seemed to become conscious of fresh surround- 
ings. I seemed in the centre of the worlds, in a 
place of strength; I was conscious of the heart 
of love, far above my understanding — the rest 
and comfort of a great strength, and yet I sup- 
pose the best description for you is that I seemed 
in the atmosphere of God — knowing nothing 
but God — wanting nothing but good; and 
yet aware that it would take me aeons 
to understand, to know and grow in this 
heavenly consciousness. Soon I saw our earth, 
I saw the blindness of men; though dwelling in 
this wondrous love they were content to live in 
shadow, in pain. "Lord, I must go to them, I 
must tell them," I thought.   The voice of the 


180 CHRIST IN YOU 

Spirit spoke within — " I "^ am God, and beside 
me there is none else.'' " Amen, Amen, Amen,'' 
I answered. 

To dwell consciously in God is to inbreathe 
and outbreathe harmony and love. I am with- 
out limits, I revel in freedom, I cannot think 
sin, sickness, or death except to remove them; 
they have become to me less than vapour. God 
is all in all, and no one can be outside God. 
Even your very stones and rocks are interpene- 
trated by the God-life. " Awake, thou that 
sleepest, arise from the dead " ; ^^ Christ is ^ the 
light of the world." Oh for a thousand voices 
to proclaim the truth that nothing is but God! 
Rise out of your false, shadowy consciousness 
and mount into the consciousness of love. 
" Truly He maketh my ^ feet like hinds' feet." I 
know that in me the Christ has ascended to His 
Father; henceforth "the Father and I are one." 
In me the Trinity of the Three are one, and yet 
three. 

Spirit is substance, nothing can be real except 

T Isa. xlv. 18. » Hab. UL 19. 

« John viU. 12. 


GOD THE ONLY LIFE 181 

God ; but joy of joys, as I met relatives, f rieuds, 
and dear ones, I knew, how more than ever they 
were mine beyond thought of loss or separation ! 
All I had lost was the fear of losing, God's 
thought is the only reality; the world is God's 
thought. You are yet to learn that all realities 
are in God's thought. You are to express them. 
Rise, dear heart, and take your place with us, 
that you may know God only, just where you are. 
Love never ^^ faileth. Begin now. This is the 
true way to bring in light and love, conquering 
death by the sacrifice of the body of sense, to 
rise in newness ^^ of life. 

I will come again. I have told you of this ex- 
perience only to help. I would not have done so 
unless you were able to apprehend it. It will be 
meaningless to the seekers of wonders and signs. 

You must let self utterly melt away in order 
that Christ may come to His own. 

10 1 Cor. xiii. 8. n Rom. vi. 4. 


NINTH LESSON 

HE GAVE  HIMSELF 

AS you unfold in the consciousness of God, 
many inexplicable things become clear. 
One is the purifying process of pain. 
It is safer and grander to suffer, because, rightly 
viewed, it is sure to perfect the soul. Have you 
not sometimes felt the shallowness and the empti- 
ness of joy? I tell you it is impossible to know 
true joy — the heights of joy — until you have 
known corresponding depths of pain. This is 
the process called " the refiner's fire." ^ It is 
cleansing; it is good, and not evil. True joy — 
the joy of Heaven — should saturate the whole 
being, and touch the inner consciousness with a 
sense of its eternity, its everlastingness; and the 
suffering 2 has prepared a place that joy may 
enter in. Learn the wisdom in these words — 
" As sorrowful, yet ^ always rejoicing." 

I Mai. iii, 2. 2 isa. ix. 2, 3, 3 2 Cor. vl. 10. 

182 


HE GAVE HIMSELF 188 

Now I would show you the difference between 
necessary suffering and useless pain, which is 
disorder; likewise between true joy and transient 
false joy. Divine humanity can attain the 
throne of the universe only by the way of the 
Cross. This is the way of sacrifice. Do not too 
hurriedly dismiss the pearl in the old orthodox 
teaching, it served its day and generation most 
efficiently. When man thought of himself as a 
separate and outside unit, only this teaching 
could help his unfoldment, so thank God for the 
ladder of dead creeds — dead selves. But now 
the divine Man is arising; He has burst the old * 
bottles ; the new wine of life cries out for space 
and freedom, as the sap does in the tree. Be- 
ware, for here is your danger; the suffering be- 
gins, which shall make the path by cleansing 
and burning up all that hinders the uprising of 
the divine in earth, air, and sea. The Son of 
God is come, and your very experiences of pain 
and suffering are the heralds of His approach. 

There is much more to be revealed to you, but 
we leave these messages with you to help you to 

* Matt ix. 17. 


184 CHRIST IN YOU 

live and express the highest within you, knowing 
that Christ will perfect that which concerneth 
Him, and ye are Christ's, and Christ is God's. 


THE  END 


THIS BOOK IS DUE ON THE LAST DATE 
STAMPED BELOW 

AN INITIAL FINE OP 25 CENTS 

WILL BE ASSESSED  FOR  FAILURE TO  RETURN 
THIS  BOOK  ON  THE  DATE  DUE.  THE  PENALTY 
WILL INCREASE TO SO CENTS ON THE FOURTH 
DAY  AND  TO  $1.00   ON   THE  SEVENTH   DAY 
OVERDUE. 

NOV 23 m^ 

NOV  g4 1<4i 

) 

LD21-100w-7,'39(402s 

J D  ^ 7^DO 


M2SG2^S 


BY H'ioj 


THE UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORNIA LIBRARY 


